1940
JOHNNY WISE RANG UP the Siamese Kitten. The Siamese Kitten said
crossly that everybody had left long ago; the place was closed for
the  night. Mr.  Earl  Anderson’s  party?—never heard of  the
gentleman...
‘He’s an actor,’ said Johnny. ‘Dark, squat fellow—sort of raffish:
you know the chap? Well, look here, he’ll have been with Miss Isabel
Drew.’
Ah, that was different. Miss Drew had been here with a party,
but had left a long time ago—two hours ago. Yes, there had been a
young lady  in  the  party.  A  very  pretty young lady?—well, the
gentleman would understand that all the young ladies who came to
the Siamese Kitten were very pretty young ladies to The Siamese
Kitten. Miss Perpetua Kirk—very well, if the gentleman said so: The
Siamese Kitten did not know; and it evidently did not care either, for,
suddenly tiring of the whole conversation, it rang off.
Johnny rang up The Kangaroo, and The Black Bear and The
Unreluctant Dragon but all these creatures were apparently asleep,
for they did not reply. ‘They must have gone back to Isabel’s flat,’ he
thought. ‘Poor Peppi, she’ll be so tired, and probably bored to tears
listening to Isabel’s eternal monologue about sex and how to make
money... And she’ll never get a taxi at this hour of the morning. I’ll go
round to  Isabel’s  and  perhaps  have  a  drink, and  bring  Perpetua
home.’ He  got  out  his  shabby old  Chrysler and  drove  round to
Isabel’s  door:  and  into  his  tender,  gay  and  innocent young heart
there  never entered one  single  doubt that  he  would be  welcome
there.


Isabel was bored with the Johnny-Perpetua engagement. She
thought that Peppi was a silly little fool, throwing herself away, with
all those good looks, on a penniless irresponsible like Johnny Wise,
from India or the Malay or where ever it was that he came from: and
besides, Earl Anderson had fallen for her—Earl specialized in fresh
young things, it made him feel such a roué. And Earl was in the
money just now: and Isabel needed some round brown pennies, and
Earl was always easy when he was good-tempered... Nothing had
been  said,  no  deliberate plan  existed even  in  the  still  waters of
Isabel’s  complex heart: but  somehow this  party  at  The  Siamese
Kitten arranged itself, with another man, to keep Isabel busy: and
somehow it was boring there, despite so much to drink, and so they
all rolled back to Isabel’s flat: and somehow when the bottle at the
flat got low, another one took its place: and Perpetua wasn’t used to
all that gin... So that when Johnny Wise arrived, guilelessly smiling,
to take his beloved home, Isabel opened the door to him, and said
irritably: ‘You can’t—she isn’t ready to go.’
‘Well, I’ll come in and have a drink then, may I?’ said Johnny.
‘No, Johnny, you can’t,’ said Isabel, beginning to close the door.
Johnny was astonished. ‘Well, tell Peppi I’m here, anyway.’
‘Perpetua doesn’t want you, Johnny, she’s busy: so for God’s
sake go home and mind your own business and let the poor kid have
a night out if she wants to.’
‘What on earth are you talking about?’ said Johnny. He pushed
past her into the flat. ‘I’ll ask her myself, and if she doesn’t want to go
home yet, well naturally she needn’t. Where is she?’
Isabel set her tight little rosebud mouth. ‘Very well,’ she said.
‘Go ahead—help yourself!’ and she flung open the door of a room.


Perpetua was there with Earl.
Johnny Wise stood there in the doorway. He said in a sort of
strangled groan: ‘Oh  no! No!’  as  though he  could not,  would not
believe what  he  saw:  and  turned and  went  blundering  down the
stairs and into the Chrysler and drove it out to the Great West Road
and there found a long straight bit with a wall at the end of it: and
turned the car and went back a little: and turned the car once more
and headed it for the wall, and trod hard on the gas.


Chapter I
MRS. PORT SAT AT the open window of the narrow little room that was
costing her husband twenty guineas a week. Her thin grey hands
pleated and repleated a fold in her kimono. ‘But I don’t see why you
should want to manage a pageant, Edgar: knights on horses and a
girl in a tower—what’s it all about? I don’t understand.’ She gave a
little sigh and then said apologetically: ‘But there are so many things
I don’t understand.’
‘It’s just to keep me amused and busy, dear, till you can leave
this place...’
‘Shall we  go  back  to  Malaya,  Edgar,  when I’m  able  to  leave
here?’
Mr.  Port’s  round face  grew  suddenly haggard: there  was  the
same grey look about him as there was about the restless hands.
‘There isn’t very much left to go back to, my dear. Everything that we
knew has gone. The Japanese...’
‘I  don’t  remember any  of  it,’  she  said  vaguely,  troubled and
apologetic again.
He  pulled himself together.  ‘Well,  don’t  try,  dear.  Don’t  worry
about it. It’ll all come back.’ But there were some things that would
be so much better hidden away in the cobwebs of her mind for ever!
The Japanese... He shut his own mind to it all; and said with his own
old  bouncing cheerfulness: ‘Meanwhile you  must  get  well  and
perhaps you’ll be able to come and see my pageant!’
‘What happens to the girl in the tower?’
‘Well, the girl in the tower—that’s Isabel Drew, you know...’
‘I don’t remember any Isabel Drew,’ she said.


‘Not back in Malaya—you met her here in London, soon after we
came Home... She was a friend of Johnny’s.’
‘Of Johnny’s?’ she said.
‘Don’t you remember Johnny?’ he said, sadly.
She  shook her  poor  grey  head. ‘I  don’t  remember anything,
Edgar, dear.’
He pulled himself up again. ‘Well, never mind. It’ll all come back
one  day  soon. Anyway,  this  girl  Isabel Drew  knows all  the  other
promoters of the Exhibition, and when she knew that there was to be
a pageant, she—she persuaded us all that I ought to play the part of
pageant master; just for the fun of it, you know.’
‘But do you understand about pageants, Edgar? Are you used to
that kind of thing?’
‘Anyone can manage a pageant!’ said Mr. Port, with the more
bluff heartiness because he was not at all sure that this was so. ‘And
Isabel convinced them all in a couple of words that there right in their
midst they had just the man they were looking for. It’s hard work but
—well, it’ll keep me occupied,’ he finished rather lamely: and as her
face took on that old hurt look of querulous uncertainty he added,
with an almost desperate pleading: ‘Don’t question me any more:
don’t bother about it all any more... I only mentioned it because I
thought it might amuse you. It’s all nothing: all just a bit of nonsense,
but I—I have my reasons...’
Susan Betchley, meeting them in the park that afternoon, would have
said that Mr. Port had only one reason for associating himself with
Isabel Drew’s  pageant—and that  reason was  Isabel Drew.  She
titupped along beside him on her high-heeled shoes, a little round,
honey-coloured creature, softly  and  warmly curved as  a  whipped


cream walnut. He dropped her hand rather furtively, Susan Betchley
thought; his  arms  hung  short  and  stiff  on  either side  of  his  bow-
windowed tummy, small plump hands twitching self-consciously. It
was too late to retire gracefully: she waved her stumpy umbrella at
them and advanced purposefully across the forbidden grass—a little
like a stumpy umbrella herself with her stocky figure and well-carved
head, and dull, but neatly-fitting silk dress. ‘Hallo, Miss Drew! Fancy
meeting you!’
‘Oh,  lor’  here’s  that  awful Betchley woman,’ said  Isabel
petulantly to Mr. Port. She assumed an unconvincing smile. ‘Hallo,
Miss Bitchley: fancy meeting you too! You and Edgar know each
other, don’t you?’
Mr.  Port  and  Miss  Betchley disclaimed; he  touched her  firm
brown hand briefly with his pudgy one, pink and moist in the hot July
sunshine. ‘First time I’ve had the pleasure...’
‘How peculiar!’ said Isabel. ‘I thought you both came from Malay
or wherever it was?’
Mr. Port and Miss Betchley began with one voice to protest that
Malaya was the noun and Malay the adjective: that one might as well
say  that  they  both  came from  the  French... ‘Well,  I  mean  you’re
Anglo-Indians or  whatever it  is,  then,’ said  Isabel, not  impressed.
‘You both knew Johnny Wise, anyway.’
Their  eyes  met,  shifted a  little,  and  they  each  looked away
again: was it only that Isabel could talk so lightly of Johnny? But
Johnny had been dead more than seven years... Mr. Port explained:
‘Johnny Wise wrote home and told all his friends so much about
England: when we finally got home, we looked up Miss Drew. He—
he thought so much of her!’ He smiled indulgently upon Miss Drew.


‘Miss Drew must be quite fed up with all Johnny’s friends,’ said
Miss Betchley with a little apologetic grimace. ‘I’m afraid I presumed
on my friendship with Johnny Wise in the old days, to do just the
same thing.’ She added to Isabel: ‘I’m still looking for a job! Not very
easy to find, with no qualification whatsoever, and being a “new girl”
in  everything at  my  great age!  But  we  poor  middle-ageing
spinsters...’ She grimaced again and gave a small, rather snorting,
self-deprecatory laugh.
Isabel, who  was  also  a  spinster and  several years nearer
middle-age than Miss Betchley, responded with a pitying smile. Mr.
Port said abruptly: ‘Perhaps we could find Miss Betchley something
in the pageant, Isabel?’
‘There’s no room for any more women,’ said Isabel briefly.
He  persisted. ‘What about—what  about wardrobe—mistress,
eh?’
‘There isn’t  a  wardrobe, Edgar: nothing but  my  dress and  a
dozen suits of armour.’
‘Well, I’m sure she could make herself useful in lots of ways,’
insisted Mr.  Port,  with  unparalleled firmness, where Isabel was
concerned. He looked at the swarthy, somehow rather wistful face,
and said buoyantly: ‘Would that suit you, eh? It would only last a few
weeks, but it might just fill in time...’
And Brian Two-Times also got a job in Isabel’s pageant. Brian Two-
Times was sweet. Brian Bryan, his name was actually, and he was
Dutch, or  his  mother had  been  Dutch or  something—Isabel was
never quite sure: anyway he came from the Malay. Well, all right,
Sumatra then, wherever that might be...
‘Sumatra iss an island, quite separate from Malaya...’


‘How you people do fuss!’ said Isabel. She sat curled up on the
off-white sofa in her cosy, slightly grubby little off-white flat. ‘Now,
Brian, look—about getting you a job...’
‘I don’t want a job so much,’ said Brian laughing.
‘Well,  darling, you  can’t  just  moodle about doing absolutely
nothing: now, I know this isn’t much of a job, but thousands of awfully
nice people are quite keen to do it, and it’s only for a few weeks
while the exhibition lasts...’ Isabel was not finding it too easy to find
a dozen knights to ride round her tower in the pageant. ‘For instance,
Earl Anderson’s doing it: well now, he’s quite a well known actor, at
least not exactly well known, but lots of people have heard of him,
only he happens to be resting at the moment—such an idiotic word, I
always think, because the last thing they ever do is rest, but rush
round like  lunatics sucking up  to  everybody and  trying to  get
auditions...’
Brian Bryan was thirty-nine or forty: short with broad shoulders,
a rather square, smiling face, and astonishingly blue, blue eyes. He
habitually wore a long mackintosh which flapped as he walked; and
he was radiant with vitality and a sort of impatient charm. He did not
appear much interested in Earl Anderson’s efforts while resting, but
said, indifferently: ‘I seem to know the name.’
‘Well, actually, I expect you know it because of Perpetua. She’s
been  living  with  him,  or  anyway running round with  him,  which I
suppose comes  to  the  same  thing—ever since  Johnny  Wise  did
himself in.’ She looked at him alertly, curled up, soft and round and
golden on her shabby sofa. ‘I suppose you think it’s odd of Perpetua,
Brian?’


Brian shrugged his shoulders. ‘I don’t think about it at all.’ His
English was  quite  good, though he  spoke with  a  strong foreign
accent. He changed the subject to one more immediately concerning
himself. ‘What does  this  Anderson in  the  show,  that  is  therefore
suitable for me to do?’
‘Well,  he’s  in  the  pageant, darling,’ said  Isabel, brightening.
‘Riding round on  a  horse, it’s  too  ridiculous, but  after  all  it’s  four
pounds a week for ten minutes’ work, twice a day. And they’re only
old circus ponies trained to go round and round in a ring and do the
Grand Chain or some such nonsense. You needn’t be able to ride a
bit. Earl can’t, not for toffee.’
Brian Two-Times had spent perhaps two-thirds of his working
life in the saddle. He gave her a little mocking bow whose irony was
completely lost on her. ‘That iss a great relief.’
‘Well, I’ll tell Sugar Daddy that he must fix you up as one of the
knights. You know old Edgar Port’s the pageant master? I can’t think
why he wants to do it, because he seems to have pots of money.’
‘All for the luff of a lady?’ suggested Brian, laughing.
‘I wouldn’t be surprised,’ said Isabel, laughing too. ‘Anyway, I
introduced him to the manager of the whole show, who’s an old job
of  mine,  and  they  fixed  it  up  between them: heaven knows  what
Edgar knows about running pageants, but I suppose he used to get
up the fire-walking stunts or whatever they are, back home in the
Malay.’
‘Malaya,’ said Brian Two-Times automatically. ‘And I assure you
that Edgar Port did not get up the fire-walking stunts there. He was a
great man in Malaya: very pompious indeed!’ He blew out his cheeks


and stuck out his tummy in a startlingly life-like impression of Mr.
Port at his most pompious.
‘Oh, well, I always forget that you knew him there.’
‘I did not know him there. How many times I have to tell you that
my home is in Sumatra? As it happens, I knew Johnny Wise, yes:
but Mr. Port I never set eyes on till you introduced us. He lived in
British Malaya: I in Dutch Sumatra.’
‘Oh, well, you were all good old Anglo-Indians together!’ said
Isabel impatiently. She got up off the sofa, stretched herself with a
great display of  bosom and  thigh, and,  since Brian Two-Times
remained impassive, suggested  without resentment that  they  go
down to  Elysian Hall  and  see  what  was  doing in  the  way  of
preparation for the Homes for Heroes Exhibition. ‘Charity Exmouth
will be there, doing the decor or whatever they call it for the pageant,
and I can show you what it’s all about. Besides, she owes me twenty
pounds commission for getting her the job and I want to squeeze
some of it out of her...’
The enormous shell of the Elysian Hall was in process of conversion
into  a  small  township of  model homes suitable for  the  Heroes of
England—(who meanwhile crowded in with reluctant relatives, and
by day tramped the streets pleading with agents and officials that
anything would  do,  the  wife  wasn’t particular,  not  any  more...)
Pseudo-Tudo cottages jostled staring white plastic, tortured into a
series of  Chinese boxes moulded from  a  single sheet: all-electric
flatlets—a single cell, as it were, detached from the parent hive—
sparkled with  chastely camouflaged efficiency.  There were  whole
rows  of  bathrooms complete  with  fittings, whole rows  of  fittings
divorced from their bathrooms, whole rows and rows of baths alone,


standing like disconsolate white poodles left out in the rain. In the
galleries young women in  tight,  short  skirts  and  with  complicated
hair-dos, learned off  by  heart  a  set  patter about goods they  had
never previously heard of, and now that they knew something about
them, would certainly never dream of  buying for  themselves.
Agitated exhibitors leaped up  and  down crying in  anguish, ‘Not
sleeping nets, dear, Slumber nets, I told you agen and agen...’ and
the young ladies took the plums out of their mouths for a moment to
exclaim crossly: ‘Oh, wot the ’ell does it matter, Mr. Engelbaum?’
Elderly gentlemen who had seen better days, ceaselessly passed a
raw boiling fowl in at one end of a complicated mass of machinery
and produced it, roasted to a turn, at the other end. Gardeners were
planting out the Clock of Flowers with drooping pansies and sturdy
Batchelors’ Buttons, a  locust swarm of  chattering little  women,
uniformly grey, swept up the dust of the aisles into clouds and waited
for it to settle again. In the centre of the main hall, Charity Exmouth
stood wrapt in  admiration before the  pageant tower,  with  her
hobbledehoy son prancing sycophantically at her side. ‘We call him
Motherdear,’ said Isabel, as she and Brian Bryan approached the
little  group. ‘You’ll  soon  know  why.  And  why will  she  wear  three-
cornered hats?’
‘She wants to look like a woman M.P.,’ suggested Brian.
‘Nobody can  possibly want  to  look  like  a  woman M.P.,’  said
Isabel. She advanced buoyantly. ‘Hallo, Charity. Hallo, George. Oh,
hallo, Edgar, my pet.’
Charity Exmouth permitted a rush of teeth to the front of her
mouth and hurriedly retracted them. Mr. Port bounded with pleasure
at the sight of his beloved, his little feet almost leaving the ground in


the excess of his joy. The hobbledehoy looked loweringly at Isabel’s
remorseless charms, and thought that if only his mother had not kept
him so desperately ‘young’ he would long ago have learned to gaze
upon such bournes of bliss and remain undisturbed. Not that he...
For after all he was in love with Perpetua Kirk... But Perpetua was
straight and narrow and uncushioned as a reed and he could not
keep his eyes from Isabel’s curves. He relapsed into a dream of
angry adolescent resentment: a slim, dark, nervous boy in the throes
of his first great love.
A stage was built out into the vast hall: semicircular, cut off from
the  great  room  behind—the Assembly room  it  was  called—by a
flimsy wooden ‘castellated’ wall.  In  the  centre of  this  wall  was  a
tower, a mere empty tube, standing on one end: and through the
tower had been driven a high arch, leading from the Assembly room
to  the  stage in  front.  Above the  arch  was  a  narrow window,  tall
enough to give access to a tiny balcony looking out over the hall. A
rickety flight  of  steps inside the  tower led  to  the  rickety platform
within this window. Isabel Drew, whose nightly task it would be to
ascend these steps, hang about on the inside platform, and finally
appear dramatically in a blaze of sudden flood-lights on the balcony
outside the window, had insured her rounded limbs severally and
together, for the duration of the job: and, so devout was her passion
for good hard cash, could almost find it in her heart to wish that—
right at the end of the run, when she had squeezed all she could
possibly get out of Sugar-Daddy Port and the Homes for Heroes
Exhibition—the ladder might give  way  and  break just  one  teeny,
weeny, terribly painless little bone...


Mr. Port on the other hand was in an agony lest anything might
happen to darling Isabel. ‘Are you sure, Mrs. Exmouth that the ladder
is safe? And that balcony? It looks terribly gimcrack.’
‘The whole thing’s as solid as it can be,’ said Charity crossly:
and  added, glancing at  Isabel’s  delectable bulges: ‘That  is  for
anybody of normal weight.’ Charity herself was of the meagre quality,
too often associated with her name. She gestured at the tin ivy, of an
arsenic greenery, that coiled itself up the tower and about the little
balcony. ‘Life-like, don’t you think? George positively thought it was
the real thing: didn’t you, George?’
‘I said that the real thing often looked just as phoney,’ mumbled
George.
‘But  do  I want  all  this  frightful ivy?’  said  Isabel, clinging with
pretty petulance to Mr. Port’s arm.
Edgar explained tenderly. It was all the fault of that naughty little,
soft  little,  cooing little  voice of  hers.  They  simply must  have  it
stronger than  it  had  come up  at  the  original run-through  of  her
speech: microphones and things had had to be hidden up on the
tower quite  near  her,  but  then  the  trouble was  that  they  would
magnify a  lot  of  other sounds—he didn’t quite  understand the
mechanics of it all...
‘The whole thing’s arranged and fixed up now, so we must have
the ivy and that’s the end of it,’ said Charity, settling the tricorne hat
with  determination upon  her  head, and  preparing to  give  battle.
‘There’s a switch hidden in the ivy up on the right-hand side of the
arch, as you face the stage, and one of the knights will have to just
reach up and switch it on when Isabel appears...’


‘Oh, that reminds me,’ said Isabel. ‘Talking about knights, here’s
another one. His name’s Brian Bryan—Brian Two-Times, I call him.’
She looked upon him with a fond and proprietary air, delighted with
the excellence of her wit.
A handsome, rather swarthy young woman was now dragged
forward from  her  self-imposed obscurity and  introduced to  Brian
Two-Times: Miss  Bitch-sorry-Betchley:  an  old  friend of  that  boy
Johnny Wise who had killed himself—and so was Brian. Surely they
must have all met, out there in the Malay or wherever it was? Brown
eyes met blue, blue eyes rather quickly looked down at the floor.
Isabel prattled gaily on, and all unconscious of their doom, the little
victims played. The kill had been selected. The killer at hand. The
bystanders were gathering at the scene of execution: and Isabel with
every careless word knocked yet  another nail  into  the  highly
complicated structure of double murder...
Two people, wandering rather aimlessly through the archway leading
under the tower and out on to the semicircle of the stage, arrived at
just the right moment to complete the cast. Earl Anderson was a
short, stocky man, with  chrysanthemum-curling black hair—his
innumerable devoted friends doubted the  authenticity of  both  curl
and  colour—luminous large  blue  eyes, and  an  air  of  determined
raffishness, much assisted by  the  affectation of  horsey checked
coats, slit up on either side of his behind. Perpetua Kirk was a thin,
fair, pretty creature, with hair so thick and frizzy that it looked like a
well-kept yew  hedge—trimmed to  a  clipped page-boy bob.  She
drooped along at Earl’s side, walking as though in a sort of stupid
dream. Earl had said why not go down and take a look at this absurd
Exhibition—the Exmouth woman wanted him to do something about


a light switch or something, during the pageant.”... And one might as
well go: everybody would be uninteresting and everything would be
meaningless, but then so they would anywhere else. ‘There’s your
dear  Isabel,’ she  said,  indicating the  group below the  footlights,
looking up at the tower.
‘So she is,’ said Earl. He called down, ‘Hallo, Jezebel! Hallo,
Mrs. Exmouth! Hallo, Mr. Port.’ He supposed that was the new Dutch
fellow that Isabel was always talking about.
‘Hallo, Earl,’ said Isabel. ‘And don’t call me Jezebel! It makes
me cross. Hallo, Peppi.’
Perpetua gave  them  her  pretty,  mirthless smile. Brian  Bryan
turned away his  head  from  his  share of  it.  He  thought:  She’s
absolutely empty; as empty as a seashell. It seemed impossible that
Johnny had loved with his whole young heart this husk of a girl with
her  curved  lips  and  unsmiling grey  eyes. But  he  remembered
Johnny’s letters. Damn her! he thought: and knew that it was not just
an expression—that he really meant it: that he wished her soul in
hell.
Susan Betchley also wished Perpetua’s soul in hell... After what
happened to Johnny—still going round with that Anderson creature
—daring to  come here  and  meet—all of them.  Perpetua met  the
stare of her resentful brown eyes with a mild surprise.
Perpetua, for whom Johnny Wise had killed himself: who to all
intents and purposes had murdered him. And Isabel Drew and Earl
Anderson, assistant murderers. And Edgar Port, and Susan Betchley
and  Brian Two-Times  who  had  loved Johnny.  And  hobbledehoy
George Exmouth who loved Perpetua. Two victims: and a murderer:
and supporting cast. And not very long to go...


They stood grouped together, discussing the action of the pageant
with  Charity Exmouth; (Charity  would be  far  away in  Edinburgh
designing yet another ivy-covered decor by the time the murder was
committed for  which she  now  so  innocently set  the  scene). She
stood outlining the progress of the pageant with sweeps of her bony
hands. ‘The  trumpets will  blare: it’ll  be  terrific—floodlights  will  be
focused on  the  archway,  all  the  people will  turn  to  see  what’s
happening and come crowding to the space here below the stage.
Then more trumpets, and the Knights come riding through on their
chargers, velvet cloaks flying, silver standards held high! Pace round
the  stage, form  up  for  the  figures, finally into  the  Grand  Chain,
harness jingling as the horses break into a trot: the tableau beneath
the tower, all the Knights looking up to the window where the Queen
of England, Home and Beauty is to make her dramatic appearance!
The lights shift slowly upward: a thunder of drums—and in her silver
dress with her tall pointed hat and flowing veil, she steps out on to
the balcony...’ She broke off, exhausted by the wonder and beauty
of it all.
‘What is it meant to represent?’ said Susan Betchley in her flat,
too-downright way.
Nobody had the faintest idea what it was meant to represent.
‘Just—er—just a  sort  of  general homage to  England, Home and
Beauty,’ said Mr. Port, waving his fat little hands. Whether darling
Isabel was supposed to favour England, Home or Beauty, he had
never quite decided. ‘After all they all meant the same thing to—well,
to a great many of us,’ he said. His eyes met Brian Bryan’s and
Susan Betchley’s and he looked down at the toes of his shoes. No
use trying to explain to people who had not been there and could


never understand, what  such  words had  meant to  those who  for
three years had lived in ‘the Malay’, under the tender rule of the
Sons of Heaven...
‘Now  who  shall  be  leading Knight?’ said  Charity Exmouth,
bustling down to work. She gazed fondly upon her son. ‘George is
going to take the part of one of the Knights—just for the fun of it:
aren’t you, George?’
‘Yes,  Motherdear,’  said  George, who  was  taking the  part
because his mother insisted upon it and for no other reason.
‘So who shall be leading Knight?’ repeated Mrs. Exmouth.
‘Brian Two-Times,’ said Isabel promptly.
While Mr. Port was pageant master, Isabel’s word was law. ‘Very
well then,’ said George’s mother sourly. ‘And then Mr. Earl Anderson
must  be  Second Knight, because I’ve  already arranged  with  him
about the  amplifier switch: so  George must  be  third.  The  Leader
wears a white cloak and rides a white charger—all the other horses
are black: Second wears a red cloak, and Third a blue. So we’d
better rechristen them White Knight and Red Knight and Blue Knight.
Mr. Bryan, White. Mr. Anderson, Red. George, Blue.’
Everyone looked more than  satisfied with  this  masterly
rearrangement.
‘So you will lead them in, White Knight,’ continued Charity, coyly
addressing Brian Bryan in his new identity, ‘in single file through the
arch. You pace round the stage once or twice and then all take your
positions to form a hollow square, White Knight in the centre...’
‘They can’t,’ said Isabel. ‘It’ll be an uneven number if you put
one in the centre.’
‘We’re only having eleven knights,’ said Charity reasonably,


‘But we’ve got twelve suits of armour,’ said Isabel. Her tight little
soul revolted at the idea of wasting money—even the Exhibition’s
money—on something that was not to be used.
‘Well, it’s too late to bother about that now. We’ll just have to
look upon one of them as “reserve”. I’ve worked out all the moves
and  they  can’t  be  changed,’  said  Mrs.  Exmouth firmly,  giving the
tricorne a further belligerent tilt. ‘Hollow square, White Knight in the
centre. Set to partners: White here, Red here,  Yellow  and  Green
Knights over there...’ She sketched one or two simple evolutions and
as no one appeared to follow one word of what she was saying,
mapped them out with pin-men on scraps of paper torn from her
notebook. ‘Now, Red there, Blue over here... No, what am I saying,
Blue here, and Red stands still in the centre... No, no, I’m wrong
myself, you’ve got me all muddled: it’s Blue that stands still and does
nothing and Red rides round to the left...’ By the time they arrived at
the Grand Chain the floor was littered with little scraps of paper.
Isabel was impatient to get to her part in the pageant. She ran
up the rickety ladder and hung out of the window, calling down to
them in her fluting voice. ‘Well, then, they come out of the Grand
Chain, with Brian leading and Earl behind and George behind him,
and then the eight others. The eight form up in a semicircle round
the edge of the stage, looking out towards the audience. Don’t you
think they really ought to be looking up towards the Queen?’
‘No,’ said Charity.
Isabel decided to let that go. ‘Well, I’m in the window, all in the
shadows because the lights are focused on the stage: Earl’s on my
left hand, looking up at me, and George is on my right: and Brian
Two-Times is facing into the archway, with his horse’s behind to the


audience, also looking up... The lights slowly rise till they floodlight
the window and the balcony: and I appear in my silver dress and my
tall pointed hat and break into my speech.’ Without invitation she
broke into  her  speech... All  about them  in  blinding dust,  in  ear-
shattering din, the Homes for Heroes Exhibition underwent the slow
and painful process of its birth. Give us the ’ammer... Fetch that
plank... Tray one of our Slomber nets... You just pass the chicken in
here... The little grey locusts swept and polished and waited for the
dust to settle again, the exhibitors leaped and pleaded with the plum-
mouthed young ladies in  vain.  Isabel declaimed. Perpetua Kirk,
bored beyond endurance, moved over to Susan and said, with her
own little air of polite indifference: ‘Are you taking some part in the
pageant, Miss Bitchley? All Isabel’s friends seem to be.’
‘I’m not a friend of Miss Drew’s,’ said Susan abruptly. ‘And my
name happens to be Betchley; with an “e”.’ She added, because
Perpetua only looked at her vaguely, that she did know Isabel Drew
but that that didn’t make her a friend.
‘Oh, doesn’t it?’ said Perpetua, blankly. What did it matter? One
was only trying to be polite.
‘Of  course  she  did  get  me  this  job,’  acknowledged Susan,
anxious to be fair. ‘I had to get something. I lost all I had in the F.M.S.
and  I  find  it  difficult  to  get  jobs  in  England—or,  anyway,  to  keep
them.’
The  F.M.S.  was  a  part  of  Malaya. Where Johnny had  come
from. ‘Oh,  yes?’ said  Perpetua, brushing away the  memory as
though a cobweb had drifted across her mind.
‘I’m supposed to be the wardrobe mistress,’ said Miss Betchley,
fiercely self-derogatory. ‘I look after twelve suits of pretence armour


and Isabel Drew’s bits of rubbish. And I have to be on guard at the
door into the Assembly room, to see that nobody goes in while the
pageant’s in progress.’
‘Why shouldn’t they?’ said Perpetua, for something to say.
‘For  the  simple reason that  the  door’s  straight opposite the
archway, and the audience could see through the arch right into the
room. Of course we’re hanging a bead curtain across the inside of
the archway, but it’s best to be on the safe side...’
Well, what do I care? thought Perpetua. She wished she had
never started this stupid conversation, but her habit of good manners
was  always letting her  in  for  this  kind  of  thing. That  was  what  a
convent training did for you. You might not learn hockey or lacrosse
but they turned you out with an instinct to say or to do the right, the
kindly thing: to be polite. Other things died—for Perpetua all other
things had died one moonlight night seven years ago: but the habit
was  upon  her  still.  She  gave  Miss  Betchley her  vague, sweet,
meaningless smile, and walked away by herself, staring unseeingly
at  the  half-built houses, the  skeleton ‘stands’, the  mouthing,
gesticulating men and girls going through their patter. Why should
the woman be so offensive? I only asked politely if she was doing
some job  here... But  the  brown eyes  had  looked at  her  with
something like hate. I suppose it’s because of Johnny, she thought.
They’re all old friends of Johnny’s. They all look at me as if they
could kill me... As if they could kill her because one night long ago,
poor foolish, flattered, uncertain child that she had been, she had
allowed Isabel and Earl to make her tight; and so had been ‘easy’ for
Earl... Because from that time forward there had been no life in her
soul: because she had gone on, utterly indifferent, in the way that


she was led: trying at first and at last not even trying, to blot out the
memory of Johnny’s face as she had seen it for that brief moment
before he  had  turned and  gone  away for  ever  into  the  endless
night... She did not care for their hate: it could not touch her, nothing
could touch her any more—not Earl’s devotion, blowing hot and cold,
not Isabel’s avid excitement over her reactions, tapering away into
indifference; not the disgust or the sympathy or the understanding or
the obtuseness of their friends... Johnny is dead and at peace, she
thought: and I am dead, but not at peace. That’s the only difference.
We both committed suicide that night. She thrust her hands into the
pockets of  her  light  summer  coat,  walking with  downbent head
through the echoing aisles.
The last person one could possibly have wanted to meet just at
that juncture was Charity Exmouth’s gangling son George; and yet
here  he  was  now,  drooping  along behind her,  catching her  up,
diffidently beginning to speak: a thin boy with hands and feet that
seemed much bigger than they were because they were always so
hopelessly in his own way; with a pale, thin face and hungry dark
brown eyes. A hobbledehoy. She said with patient politeness that
she was just going home...
He wondered if he dared ask if he might see her to her door, but
could not pluck up courage to put the request into words. Instead he
left her with ungracious precipitancy, hung about until she emerged
in her vague, blind way from the big front door of the hall, and when
she  got  on  to  a  bus,  followed  her  and,  unseen, went  up  on  top.
Perpetua leaving the bus and picking her way through the Bayswater
streets to her bed-sitting room, had an uneasy feeling that she was
being followed, and  now  and  again glanced behind her;  but  her


knight errant kept  well  in  the  rear,  and  she  saw  nothing.
Nevertheless, it made her jumpy, and on edge, and the cobweb of
her depression was with her still. Johnny is dead, because of me:
and if the hate of his friends could kill, I should die a dozen deaths...
It all meant nothing, one didn’t care about that or anything; but still—
it was a chill feeling to be all alone with on a sunny July evening: and
with  that  shadow,  dodging about, keeping quite  still,  moving on
again, just a little way behind her...
At her door, she plunged her hand into her bag to find her key;
and brought out a scrap of paper that had not been there an hour
before. A small square of paper, covered on one side with a series of
squirls and  angles, and  criss-crossed lines,  with  pin-men on  pin-
horses, pacing a semicircular space. On the other side was written in
straggly printed characters: PERPETUA KIRK—YOU ARE  GOING TO  BE
MURDERED.


Chapter II
EARL ANDERSON DROVE ISABEL home in his flashy little red car. ‘I can’t
find Peppi—she seems to have wandered off somewhere. She’s so
vague!’
‘She wants someone to look after her,’ said Isabel, beginning at
once to check over in her mind all the people who might do to ‘look
after’ Perpetua Kirk, and how she, Isabel, might somehow benefit by
the arrangement.
‘She’s got me,’ said Earl, shortly.
Isabel laughed. ‘A  lot  of  use  you  are  to  her!  You’re  always
fooling around with other people, and after all she’s got her future to
think of. She’s in and out of jobs all the time—look at her, now, just
vaguely waiting for something new to turn up, and only a few pounds
left to get by on. It’s time she left off trailing round with you and got
married.’
‘What am I supposed to do, meantime?’ said Earl sulkily.
‘You don’t care tuppence about her,’ said Isabel, clinging to the
door handle as the car dry-skidded a corner. ‘It’s just a habit with
both of you. You ought to give her a shove and send her out into the
world to look for someone else. Dash it all, she’s getting on a bit: she
must be twenty-seven, if she’s a day. And still not married.’
‘You’re thirty-seven if you’re a day,’ said Earl, more or less good
humouredly. ‘And still not married.’
‘That’s different,’ said Isabel shortly: with a certain truth.
‘Anyway, she meets masses of men.’
‘Sitting around in pubs: they all just assume that she’s yours,
and  not  fair  game. It  isn’t  right,  you’re spoiling her  chances, and


she’ll never do anything until you drive her out to make new friends
for herself. She’s got no mind of her own.’
‘Thanks to you,’ said Earl.
‘Oh, well, hell to that—we’ve had this out over and over again...
You were in it much worse than I was, Earl, why pick on me?’
‘I  was  having a  bit  of  a  petting  party  with  the  girl:  not  even
anything very serious. It was you who let the chap come barging into
the room.’
‘Well, I was half-seas over myself, and he got on my nerves,
standing there insisting on seeing her. How was I to know that he
was such a little Puritan? Anyway, I expect he was tight actually:
he’d been sitting up waiting for Peppi and putting it away a bit, you
bet, and didn’t know what he was doing... The silly kid just went out
and packed himself up not knowing what he was doing...’
‘He knew what he was doing all right,’ said Earl. ‘I saw his face.’
He  threaded  the  little  car  deftly  through the  night  traffic,  staring
ahead of him. ‘I’ve done what I could to make up for it all, Jezebel:
I’ve stuck to Peppi all these years, and got jolly little out of it, I can
tell you. Not that I’ve only done it out of—well, sort of decency. In my
own way I’m very fond of her.’
‘Your own way,’ said Isabel. ‘What’s that?’
He looked down apologetically at his hands, rather heavy, rather
hairy hands, beginning to grow old, beginning to grow a little puffy, a
little mottled after all the years of drink and bad hours and lack of
exercise and air: but delicately cared for, clean and well manicured. ‘I
know I go off with other women and all that: I get into a show and it’s
boring out on tour and these damn women run after one...’ He could
not for the life of him help assuming his air of doggy raffishness,


squaring his padded shoulders a little, twisting up his mouth in the
well-known slightly-bored, slightly-cynical smile. But he dropped the
pose  again at  once  to  say:  ‘But  when I  get  back  to  London, it’s
always Peppi that I run around with: and—well, when you talk about
someone looking after her, Isabel, I—I know it sounds silly, but I—I
feel that it ought to be me.’ He said suddenly with an odd air of
challenge: ‘I’ve been thinking of—just running her round to a registry
office and marrying her.’
Isabel’s  round, pale  goldeny eyes  were  suddenly wide  with
mischief and excitement. She said shrilly: ‘Marry her! You can’t, Earl.
You’re married already.’
‘Who knows that except me—and you?’ said Earl.
Earl Anderson lived in a rather twee mews flat, over his own garage.
It was cheap and nasty, he told his friends, but (a) one lived where
one could, and (b) it was rather heaven to be able to walk down the
somewhat ladder-like stairs and get into the car without even putting
one’s nose out into the cold. He had done up the place with lots of
gay blue paint and he had a pretty fancy in genuine Chippendale at
two or three guineas a piece. The bathroom curtains were of oil-silk
with  red-legged seagulls all  over  them; turned upside-down, the
seagulls looked like fighter aeroplanes, emitting bursts of red flame,
so the curtains were hung that way. Perpetua thought this rather silly,
because few  people recognized the  aeroplane motif, and  merely
wondered why  old  Earl  hung  his  curtains upside-down. Perpetua
herself lived a couple of streets away from Earl, in the uninteresting
bed-sitting room to which she had moved, in her aimless fashion,
after Johnny’s death. No paint and silly seagulls for Perpetua. Her


body demanded a certain standard of comfort and she conceded it:
but her mind was blank alike to beauty and ugliness.
Between the door of his beloved’s chaste bed-sitt. and the door
of  his  mama’s  highly decor-ed  little  house near  the  Marble  Arch,
Motherdear on  his  way  home was  obliged to  pass  not  only  Earl
Anderson’s mews, but the shabby entrance to Isabel’s block of flats
hard by. It was awkward that just as he was about to hurry past,
Earl’s little red car should have tootled up and stopped at the bottom
of  the  steps. He  drew  back  into  the  shadows, not  wishing to
advertise his unsolicited act of chivalry in seeing Peppi home; and,
innocent of any intent to eavesdrop, waited an opportunity to pass
on.
Isabel’s cooing little voice might not fill the Elysian Hall, but it
carried golden-clear on the still night air. And Motherdear was not so
hobbledehoy that he did not recognize blackmail when he heard it,
however sweetly phrased. Isabel, all unconscious of her audience,
went, comfortably smiling, up to bed. Earl was not good for much,
but he had ‘expectations’: one day he would be well-to-do, and if this
marriage went  through... She  saw  a  comforting solution to  those
grey years ahead when the honey should have turned to gall and
wormwood in men’s mouths; and she hummed a tune to herself, as
she flung her handbag on to the sofa, and, yawning like a little cat,
stepped out of her clothes leaving each garment ringed on the carpet
where it dropped. Everything was honestly always for the best, in
this best of all possible worlds: one had only to be patient and keep
one’s eyes open for opportunities—and trust to one’s unfailing good
luck. A scrap of paper seemed to have fallen out of her bag, and she
picked it up and unfolded it as she trotted off, nude and golden, to


the bathroom. A lot of Charity Exmouth’s little pin-men: and on the
other  side...‘Good Lord,  how  childish!’ said  Isabel, screwing the
paper into a ball and tossing it into the huh-ha.
For who could possibly be intending to murder her?
Earl Anderson drove his car into the garage, and switched off the
engine and went rather wearily up the narrow stairs. Damn Isabel,
blast her, for the heartless little cat that she was! In the face of her
probable interference, his new-born plan for marriage with Perpetua
grew suddenly to be of terrible importance to him. In a rare glimpse
of reality, he saw himself for a moment, as he really was—an ageing
second-rater, in a profession where youth and youth’s good looks
counted for much—watching with painful anxiety the receding hair-
line, the advancing waistline that with other men were no more than
a rueful joke. His carefully cultivated reputation as a roué and man-
about-town seemed all of a sudden shoddy and rather mean: ‘easy’
middle-aged actresses, ‘easy’ impressionable young girls... A devil
with  his  money when he  had  any,  but  all  too  often  a  scrounger,
cadging drinks off other men in memory of better days: a war-record
of E.N.S.A. squabbles and grumbles, of grudging work, of indifferent
performances electrified only now and again into enthusiasm by the
presence of someone who ‘might be useful’... A bit of a bounder,
that was the ugly truth of it: a bit of a bounder, a phoney, incessantly
acting the  part  that  he  had  built-in for  himself to  play.  Even  that
business about his uncle and the inheritance: he had boasted about
it so often that he himself had almost come to believe in the old boy!
For a moment he wondered whether Isabel was really counting on
that mirage of future wealth: but no, no, Jezebel was too old a hand
at the game herself. And yet... His telephone had long ago been cut


off for nonpayment of bills, but he went out to a call box and rang
through to her. Isabel, however, was half in, half out of a bath, and
only told him to go to bed and not fuss, and oh, by the way, someone
was writing her silly little notes and threatening to murder her: wasn’t
it sweeeeet? He put down the receiver, dug for another two pennies
and  dialled  Peppi’s  number.  ‘Hallo, darling: I  hope  you  weren’t
asleep?’
Perpetua sounded rather strained. ‘No, I wasn’t asleep. Actually,
something rather horrid has  happened.’ She  told  him  about the
frightening little note.
Earl reassured her. ‘Isabel’s had one too; somebody down at the
Exhibition’s been playing a stupid joke. Don’t worry your pretty little
head about it any more.’ But since her mind seemed obsessed by
the silly subject he said nothing of what so much obsessed his own.
‘Jezebel’s put her’s down the drain. You do the same and go off to
sleep: good night, my sweet.’ He went back to the flat, switched on
the electric fire and waited till its red glow ignited a screw of paper so
that he could light a cigarette.
And  knocking out  the  flame observed that  the  paper was
covered on one side with pin-men and squirls and numbered criss-
cross lines. On the other side was written EARL ANDERSON—YOU ARE
GOING TO BE MURDERED... And this scrap of paper he had taken out of
his own pocket: it must have been put there within the last hour or
so. And Isabel had had one too: and Perpetua. And he and Isabel
and Perpetua...
Do what one would, one had never wiped out the memory of
that boy’s white face—when he and Isabel and Perpetua had sent
him to his death.


Chapter III
INSPECTOR  COCKRILL  HAD  KNOWN  Perpetua Kirk  long  ago  in  the  old
days, in  North Kent:  Inspector  Cockrill knew  everybody  who  was
anybody in North Kent. She had been brought to his notice again
over that unfortunate affair of the suicide, early on in the war, and he
had come up to London and done a bit of quiet investigation on his
own. Cockie detested London: a lot of hurrying, scurrying people and
not one of them to nudge his neighbour and say: ‘There goes the
Inspector—a fair old terror he is...’
But here he was in London and sitting on the edge of Perpetua
Kirk’s divan bed, rolling a cigarette between his nicotined fingers,
peering at  her  with  his  hard  little,  bright brown eyes—a shabby
country sparrow, confined for a while in a narrow town garden and
not liking it one bit. ‘I happen to be up here for a few days, Peppi;
and I got your message, and here I am. What’s wrong?’ His voice
implied that  there’d better be  something worth all  this  trouble, or
else! He puffed at the wispy cigarette, shielding it from the draught,
in the cup of his thin brown hand.
‘I saw in the papers that you were in London for this conference
thing, Cockie: so I plucked up courage to ring you—I hope you don’t
mind.’
‘I’ve told you I don’t mind,’ he said impatiently. ‘Now you tell me
what’s worrying you.’ But she looked very young and forlorn, sitting
there  crouched  in  the  single armchair; she  reminded him  of  her
pretty mother—he hoped devoutly that she had not grown up such a
fool. He squeezed out one of his wintry smiles for her. ‘There now,


don’t  mind  me—we all  know I’m  a  curmudgeon! What’s  wrong,
child?’
So Peppi told him: all about the pageant, all about the meeting
at Elysium to discuss the arrangements, all about Isabel and Brian
Two-Times  and  Motherdear and  Miss  Bitchley—no, Betchley,  and
Mr. Port and Earl Anderson; all about the murder threats. ‘Do you
think I’m just silly, Cockie? Or do you think there really is something
to worry about?’
‘I think it’s fifty-fifty,’ said Cockrill, not mincing matters, watching
the smoke from his cigarette curl up between his fingers. ‘I think it’s
very possibly a so-called joke—a cruel joke, though, intended to do
more  than  just  bewilder you  all.  On  the  other  hand—if  a  person
seriously contemplates murder, and especially murder for revenge,
I’m  never surprised when he  lets  his  intended victim  know in
advance. A swift, unexpected death may not seem to him sufficient
repayment: he  wants to  see  his  victim suffer.  That’s  part  of  the
revenge.’
‘Or of course he may want to be sort of—fair.’
‘Well, that’s a beautifully British outlook,’ said Cockrill, dryly. ‘Not
shoot a sitting bird, eh?’ What sort of bird would poor little Peppi be?
A  plover,  he  thought, a  little  hen  plover,  lying  inert  with  her  soft
feathers sleekly shining, and her pretty head lolling on her lifeless
neck...
‘If  only  I  hadn’t thrown the  note  away,’  said  Perpetua
apologetically. ‘But Earl said Isabel had put hers down the huh-ha
and I must do the same and not be silly. Then of course he got one
too...’
‘And nobody else has acknowledged getting a similar note?’


Nobody had.  ‘Just  Isabel and  Earl  and  me.’  She  added,
unhappily: ‘Of course Cockie you remember about Johnny?’
Brief,  flaring  headlines in  the  cheaper papers, filling  the  dud
patches during the  ‘phoney  war’: GIRL HE  LOVED FAITHLESS! YOUNG
SOLDIER KILLS HIMSELF!  And  comments by  the  Coroner: ‘This  fine
young officer went to his death because he found himself betrayed!’
There had been a lot of sentimentality about a twin, too. Johnny had
never been separated from his twin: but at the outbreak of war, he
had torn himself away to come to England and fight. The family had
disagreed—his father and his brothers and sister: they had said that
the Japanese would one day come to Malaya, that their duty was to
remain and meet the danger nearer home. But Johnny had not been
able to wait; he had come on to England alone, and they had stayed
behind, to be engulfed in the disaster they had too truly prophesied.
They  had  remained and  fought  for  their  homeland: and  Johnny,
unable to withstand the enemy nearer his heart, had died by his own
hand, GIRL HE LOVED FAITHLESS! YOUNG SOLDIER KILLS HIMSELF... Cockrill
said, with unwonted tenderness: ‘The boy would probably have been
killed anyway, my child. Dunkirk, or the Desert, or D-Day—they were
all yet to come.’
‘He’d have died proud and happy,’ said Perpetua.
Inspector Cockrill doubted whether people in these disillusioned
days died proudly and happily—even for their country: but women
were always sentimentalists. He heaved himself up off the bed and
brushed the  cigarette ash  off  his  shabby old  mackintosh on  to
Peppi’s carpet. ‘Let’s go down to this Elysium of yours, and see if we
can  pick  up  anything useful there.’ In  Kent, the  very  sight  of
Inspector Cockrill on the scene would have struck such terror into


the heart of practical joker and murderer alike, that he would from
that moment onward have stayed his hand. But this was London. He
perched his wild hat rather crookedly on his magnificent head, and
hurried off  with  small, rather  shuffling  steps at  Perpetua’s  side:
anyway, he was missing that infernal conference!
Eleven knights  had  finally been  engaged and  were  now  in
process of intensive training at the hands of Mr. Port, with Isabel
leaning bossily out of her tower, directing affairs from above. The
stage and Assembly room are permanent features built into Elysian
Hall, occupying a narrow sector of the circular building; the archway
through the castellated wall the only access to the stage from the
Assembly room, the big doorway opposite the only access into the
Assembly room; from the muddle of ill-lit dressing rooms beyond.
Stalls had  been  improvised for  the  horses near  the  back  doors
leading to the outer yard; and at the door between dressing-rooms
and Assembly room Miss Betchley kept patient vigil. The Assembly
room was bare save for eleven empty hooks, and a single suit of
armour, like a child’s sleeping suit in painted tin, zipped and latched
up the back for the easier apparelling of the knights: the helmet was
hitched jauntily above it from a peg, from which also dangled a long
velvet cloak of bottle green. On the stage, Brian Bryan sitting at ease
in his saddle and with a white velvet cloak, led his followers through
the gyrations of the Grand Chain, their absurd tin visors pushed up
so that they might see where they were going. ‘In, out, in out, in, out,’
chanted Isabel leaning over her balcony, oblivious of the fact that for
at least fifty per cent. of the knights her instructions must of necessity
be incorrect. They extricated themselves at last from the resultant
chaos and came to rest in their places for her declamation, eight in a


semi-circle round the  edge  of  the  stage, facing out  towards the
audience, three looking inwards and upwards to the balcony. She
took a step back into the window and reappeared in the blaze of
upward-shifting light. ‘Oh, Knights of England...’ Her voice died away
into  a  wrathful whisper.  Earl  Anderson, red-cloaked, sitting his
charger,  fumbled  desperately  among the  ivy  leaves. Inspector
Cockrill, standing in the body of the hall with Perpetua by his side,
broke into a sardonic chuckle. ‘Never knew a pageant that didn’t go
just the same! The old faggots in Kent are always getting them up!’
Isabel hung  angrily over  the  balcony.  ‘What the  hell  are  you
doing with that loudspeaker, Earl?’
‘I can’t find the damn switch,’ said Earl, irritably. He shaded his
eyes to look into the hall for Mr. Port. ‘I told you it was too high! My
arm’s not four feet long!’
The  knights sat  restlessly in  their  saddles, giggling among
themselves. ‘We’ll have to have the switch moved down,’ said Isabel.
‘Charity will have to see to it.’
George Exmouth looked up from his horse at the foot of the
tower, to her right. ‘Mother’s in Scotland. She’s finished the job here.’
Isabel burst into a muttered imprecation on Charity and all her
works, which suddenly swelled to a roar as Earl found the switch and
the  amplifiers began to  do  their  duty.  The  muffled  giggles  of  the
knights became downright laughter. She leaned over the ornamental
railing to pour abuse upon the hapless Mr. Port, easiest victim for her
wounded vanity.  Workmen and  demonstrators all  over  the  hall,
silenced their chatter and patter to laugh at the tirade of personalities
booming through the  aisles. Suddenly conscious of  what  was
happening, she  disappeared through the  window and,  scrambling


down the narrow stairs and out of her tower, appeared through the
archway and came to the edge of the stage, staring down angrily to
where Mr. Port stood laughing helplessly between Inspector Cockrill
and Perpetua. ‘I’m so sorry, my dear, but you can’t think how funny it
sounded...’ He stopped laughing at last and stood patting his aching
tummy, and looked up at her in some alarm. ‘Now, Isabel, my dear,
you’re not going to mind a joke...’
‘I don’t see anything funny in it at all,’ said Isabel viciously. Her
tone added that neither would Edgar, when she had had a few words
with him alone. She flounced back through the arch and thundered
on  the  door  leading out  of  the  Assembly room: they  saw  Miss
Betchley’s astonished face appear as she opened it from the other
side, all unconscious of what had been going on in the hall. Isabel
pushed past her and out to the dressing-rooms. ‘We simply must put
a curtain across that arch,’ said Mr. Port. ‘The audience can see
everything in the Assembly room.’
Perpetua suggested that  the  knights would find  difficulty in
finding their way through.
‘Beads,’ said Mr. Port succinctly. He added vaguely that they
would look like an arras and be just the thing.
Up  on  the  stage  the  horses stood patiently while  their  riders
argued the problem of how Earl should be certain of reaching the
amplifier switch. Motherdear’s  inherited eye  for  decor  proved
unexpectedly useful. ‘Could Mr. Anderson and I have our horses’
forefeet mounted up on blocks? That would bring him in easy reach
of the switch and at the same time give a nice effect of chargers
rampant on either side of the arch: like the lion and the unicorn in the
Royal thingamajig, you know...’ His voice trailed off uncertainly.


‘It would also give an impression of the Red Knight sliding slowly
but helplessly backwards on to his charger’s tail,’ said Earl.
‘You can hold on to your standard,’ said Brian Bryan impatiently:
the idea of a man who couldn’t sit two minutes in a saddle unless it
was positively and absolutely horizontal!
Mr. Port was longing only to get off and make it up with darling
Isabel. ‘That will be perfect! It’ll make a magnificent tableau and then
at the critical moment Mr. Anderson can leave go of the standard for
a  second, and  put  on  the  switch. Your  hand  will  be  up  near  the
switch anyway, Mr. Anderson, the audience won’t even notice you
just  imperceptibly leaning forward to  flick  it  on...’  He  clapped his
hands in signal for them all to dismiss. Dancing with impatience he
allowed himself to be introduced to Inspector Cockrill and after a few
civil  platitudes dashed off  back-stage. ‘Never heard  of  me,  I
suppose,’ said Cockie, wistfully.
‘Of course, Cockie, you’re used to having the Law behind you,
and everybody in Kent being terrified of you, and you being the sort
of centre of everything...’
‘And you think I can’t get anywhere on my own personality?’
said Cockie grimly.
Earl  had  not  seen  Perpetua so  nearly animated for  years:
something of her old gay girlhood seemed to have come back to her
as she proudly presented the little man to the company behind the
scenes, and  dwelt upon the  magnitude of  his  position and
achievements down in Kent where he was really appreciated. The
knights jostled through the tower archway from the stage, their long
cloaks tumbling  behind them  and  dismounted with  more  or  less
grace from their horses; or rode on through the outer door to the


stables and there climbed down with the help of the single attendant
groom. They all repaired to a pub outside the hall, for drinks: Earl
very doggy and palsy-walsy with the barmaid, Brian Two-Times with
the  solemn black business  man’s  hat  beloved of  the  visiting
foreigner, his too long mackintosh hung over his arm despite the
cloudless sky, Susan Betchley standing her round with unfeminine
insistence, George  hanging on  at  the  tail  of  the  party,  miserably
convinced that it did not want him there, yet lacking the poise to take
himself gracefully off. Sugar-Daddy Port was propped up in a corner
with Isabel who was making magnificent capital out of her injuries.
She consented to have Inspector Cockrill introduced to her, but soon
returned to her purposeful squabbling. Cockrill decided that it was
time for them to depart. ‘I’ll see you to your door, Peppi.’ As they sat
side by side on the top of the home-going bus, he took her thin hand.
‘There’s  nothing to  suggest  which of  these people sent  you  the
notes. You  tell  me  these scraps of  paper were  littered about
everywhere: and eight people had access to them—you three who
got them, that Brian Twice or whatever they call him, Miss Betchley,
Mr.  Port  and  young George Whatsisname, and  his  mama—who,
however, wasn’t here to-day. You never can tell: but I should think
that the whole thing was just a rather ugly, very silly joke...’
He put his hand into his pocket to fish for his tobacco to roll
himself another of  his  incessant cigarettes. There was  something
there that had not been there an hour ago. He said, coolly, unfolding
the little scrap of paper: ‘Well, that lets out the mama, anyway, and
reduces us down to seven.’ The same muddle of pin-men on one
side;  on  the  other  the  same straggly pencilled characters. It  was
quite a long note this time. It said: INSPECTOR COCKRILL, YOU THINK IT’S


JUST A JOKE DON’T YOU? BUT WAIT TILL THE OPENING NIGHT OF THE EXHIBITION.
ISABEL, PERPETUA, ANDERSON—WHICH OF THEM WILL BE THE FIRST TO DIE?


Chapter IV
IT WAS HORRIBLE TO have to get through the days before the Exhibition
opened: to  live  through the  long  hours, crawling with  half
incredulous, wholly uneasy fear. Isabel might make light of it, but she
was  frightened  now:  they  were  all  frightened, gathering into  little
knots to discuss the fourth note, the note that had been found in
Inspector Cockrill’s pocket. Cockrill had given it more or less serious
attention. It was all probably a ‘have’ but there was a ring about it too
grim for the threats to be entirely light-heartedly joking; nor when he
looked round the little group of persons who could have planted the
notes, were many of them really on terms for that kind of joking. Half
apologetically, he took the scrap of paper along to Scotland Yard.
The  handwriting experts were  full  of  mights and  might-nots, but
would say nothing definite. He left the paper with them, and returned
to  his  conference,  just  keeping in  touch now  and  again with
Perpetua, a Perpetua woken now from her cold indifference to a new
awareness of  life—to an  awareness of  death, of  the  threat of
approaching death...
They awaited the day.
A Thursday and a Friday crept by, and a long weekend; and
then suddenly Monday and Tuesday had wings and it was Tuesday
night and to-morrow was The Day: and Isabel Drew crouched in a
huddle in her bed and gave herself up to sick fear. Supposing after
all  it  isn’t  a  joke!  Suppose one  of  them  is  angry with  me  for
something I’ve done—(so many little, mean little, cruel little, long-
forgotten things that Isabel might have done!)—suppose they really
mean that they’ll kill me! In a couple of hours it would be midnight: it


would be  To-morrow.  It  was  terribly lonely.  On  an  impulse she
reached for the telephone; she would ring up Earl and tell him to
come along round, and she would make him some tea, and they
could at least talk about their common peril... But Earl had let them
cut off his ’phone, the silly fool. She rang up Perpetua instead. ‘Hallo,
Peppi.’
‘Hallo,’ said Perpetua’s low voice.
‘I thought a word between murderees might be comforting: to-
morrow being D-day. I’ve tried Earl, but of course his damn ’phone’s
cut off. How are you? Scared?’
‘I am rather,’ said Perpetua. ‘I went to bed early—but I couldn’t
sleep because of  thinking about it.  You  see  I—well, I  don’t  quite
know what to do about the exhibition: I mean, I needn’t go down,
really, need I? I haven’t got a job there, nobody can force me to go.
Just because I usually help Miss Betchley...’
‘I think you’re mad to even consider it. Why go and mix yourself
up with that crowd? The rest of us are bound to be at the pageant,
because we have got jobs there: why not stay home and be safe?
After all, whatever happens is bound to happen down there.’
‘Unless the—the murderer has  that  all  worked out:  and  he’s
purposely going to let everybody collect down there and then come
and—and attack me all alone here at home.’
‘What nonsense you do talk,’ said Isabel crossly. But on thinking
things over a little, it did occur to one that with Perpetua at Elysium,
there was a three to one chance, while with Perpetua at home, the
threat would be shared only by Earl and herself. She switched her
powers of  persuasion abruptly to  persuading Peppi that  perhaps,
after all, it was her duty to go. ‘The Bitchley does count on you now


to help behind the scenes: and to-morrow night, of all nights, she’ll
be in a flap...’
‘Oh, yes, I shall go,’ said Perpetua. ‘It seems a bit sort of mingy
to stay away. But it’s rather petrifying, Isabel, isn’t it? I mean people
do do these things: one reads about them in the paper...’ By to-
morrow night, would they be ‘people in the paper’? Perpetua had
been  ‘in  the  paper’  herself before now. (GIRL HE  LOVED FAITHLESS,
YOUNG SOLDIER  KILLS HIMSELF.)  She  said  wretchedly: ‘Of  course
probably it’s  all  some silly  idea  of  a  joke: but  supposing...
Supposing...’
‘A fine comfort you turned out to be,’ said Isabel crossly. ‘I might
just  as  well  have  rung  up  Sugar-Daddy: at  least  he’d  be  worried
about me. In fact now I come to think of it, I shall ring him: he can
take me down to-morrow evening: it’ll be company, anyhow...’ She
slammed down the  receiver.  Silly  little  fool!  Just  lily-livered, and
anyway thinking only of herself. Friends aren’t friends, thought Isabel
resentfully. Only acquaintances. When trouble comes, one hasn’t got
any friends. As for Sugar-Daddy—well, he more or less had to be a
friend, these days, whether he  liked  it  or  not.  An  uneasy sort  of
relationship, but still... She lifted the receiver again.
Sugar-Daddy was  delighted beyond measure at  this  sign  of
grace. Of course he would take her down in the car. They could stop
off  somewhere  on  the  way  perhaps, and  have  a  drink: the  bars
would be open at half past five... On the other hand, he supposed he
ought to be down there at least an hour before the balloon went up.
A cup of tea then? And if Isabel wouldn’t mind all that hanging about
at Elysian Hall before the pageant began...?


But supposing after all that it was Edgar Port who was sending
those notes? Supposing that all this time his devotion had been just
a gag, just some sort of a trick to get her to put her trust in him...?
Come to  think  of  it,  it  had  never really been  a  very  convincing
devotion: even in the early days, even before—before he had begun
to be frightened of her getting in touch with Mrs. Port, even before he
had begun that little series of ‘presents’ that would sweeten her into
saying that of course she would never give him away to his wife—
even  before that,  it  had  seemed unconvincing: a  sort  of  silly
infatuation, a sort of deliberate fostering of that infatuation, as though
in indulging it he were making a pet of himself, rather than of her.
Supposing it had all been a ruse to win her confidence? Supposing,
on the other hand, that once it had been sincere: but that now the
little presents were becoming too much of a burden? That he really
believed that in a fit of ‘conscience’ she was in the least likely to
approach his wife... She said abruptly that no, after all, she would go
down by herself: see him to-morrow, then, at a little before six...?
Once more she put down the receiver, and curled herself up in her
bed, and lay there, wakeful, while the hours chimed balefully through
the long night. Seven people: and she and Perpetua and Earl had
received the notes. Only four—and Edgar Port was one of the four—
who might have sent them.
The night passed; and the morning dragged by; and it was five
o’clock. She went through the ritual of her toilet in a crawling fear.
Tight satin brassiere, tight pink satin pants, flowered silk frock, very
light and caressing about her golden curves. She combed her hair
into its web of honey, widened her eyes for the mascara, slashed the
lipstick across her  pouting mouth... Lonely,  lonely,  lonely... How


terribly alone one was, among all one’s friends... She stood herself a
taxi down to Elysian Hall. Here and there a few carpenters tinkered
desperately; but  for  the  rest  the  Exhibition was  complete. Lights
blazed, loudspeakers blared, the rows of houses and cottages and
flats and bathrooms and baths stood ready and polished within an
inch  of  their  chromium and  enamel, on  view.  The  young ladies’
mouths were rounded over their plums, the exhibitors had retired
behind the scenes. Tray won of our Slomber nets... You place the
chicken in raw... The Clock of Flowers told the slightly incorrect time
to the wondering crowd, artificial waterfalls tinkled in gardens that
had not been there a day or two ago... At the turnstiles the people
shoved and  jostled good-temperedly.  Isabel, arriving at  the  latest
possible minute so  as  to  spend  no  undue time  upon  dangerous
ground, displayed her  little  red  ‘Demonstrator’  disc  and  was
permitted to push a way through. She scurried up the long aisles
between the Coldio refrigerators and Ohsohot furnaces and Ultra-
comfy lavatory  seats; the  gentlemen on  the  Downibed stand chi-
yacked her as she passed, the red-haired boy on Keepitot plate-
racks called to her to skip away later for a drink... She shook her
head at them one and all and made like a shot rabbit for the haven of
her dingy little dressing room behind the stage. And yet—why there?
Would  she  be  safer  there? Would  she  not  be  running  right  into
danger there? But with the instinct of a wild animal for the shelter of
the dark, she scuttled in among the shadowy stalls where the horses
moved restlessly shuffling their listless hooves, and so to her room. If
only the pageant would begin, she thought: nobody can do anything
to me up there in the tower in front of them all. Outside, she heard
Miss Betchley’s voice marshalling the knights. ‘Now then, you boys,


get a move on, we shall be starting in ten minutes... Mr. Brian, good
you’re nearly ready... Mr.  Exmouth: good!  Ah—Mr.  Port!  Yes,
everything seems to be going quite smoothly; but have you seen Mr.
Anderson anywhere? All the rest are here, except Mr. Anderson.’
Evidently Earl had had the same idea as herself: the less time
spent on  the  danger spot,  the  better.  It  was  comforting—and yet
horribly disturbing—to think that somebody else was frightened too:
had also come to think of it as by no means just a joke. There came
a nibbling of plump fingers at her door. Sugar-Daddy’s voice called
softly: ‘Are you there, my dear?’
She slid across the room and shot home the bolt. Better to see
no one. Better just to keep to herself until it was necessary to cross
the Assembly room and run up the inside ladder of her tower. There
she  would be  impregnable.  There she  would be  in  view  of  five
thousand people. There she must be safe. The ladder might have
been  tampered with,  of  course, the  rickety platform made more
rickety—but these were things that one could be prepared for, these
were dangers one could recognize and understand... She pulled off
her silk frock, stepped into the ankle-length silver gown, adjusted the
tall pointed hat with the two false plaits hanging on either side of it
and the chiffon veil flowing from its tip: and as she dressed, spared a
thought for Perpetua and Earl, who also were threatened... Vague,
gentle Perpetua, whose dead face had taken on a new look in these
last days: but which had passed only from indifference to weariness
and strain; and florid, show-off old Earl whom one had known for—
was it twenty years?—and knew to be, beneath all that racketty act
of  his,  only  a  rather simple,  not  very  happy man... Still,  he  was
cutting it a bit fine, only ten minutes more to go, and not here yet.


Supposing, Isabel  thought with  a  sudden clutch at  her  heart, he
never did come to Elysium at all that night! And that Peppi stayed
away also! After all—it was flying in the face of danger to be here at
all: why on earth hadn’t she thought of staying away herself, what on
earth did this silly old pageant matter compared with the threat to her
life...? And  if  Earl  and  Perpetua weren’t there—there  was  only
herself left. ‘ISABEL, PERPETUA,  ANDERSON—WHICH OF  THEM WILL  BE  THE
FIRST TO DIE?’
And then she heard Perpetua’s voice: and Perpetua was saying
soothingly: ‘But Earl’s here, Miss Betchley... He’s changing into his
armour.’
Isabel pushed open her door abruptly and walked out swiftly into
the  Assembly room. Perpetua  hurried after  her  as  she  began to
thrust her way through the jostling knights. ‘Oh, Isabel—I thought
you’d like to know: I’ve got Inspector Cockrill down here with me.
He’s  out  in  front.’ She  was  panting a  little.  ‘He  took  a  bit  of
persuading: I thought I’d never get him here in time.’ She threw a
glance over  her  shoulder.  ‘I’m  so late!  Must  go  and  help  poor
Betchley with these maddening knights.’ She slipped away.
The knights were pouring into the big room now, jockeying for
their positions in the line. Brian sat quietly on his white horse, waiting
to lead them through the arch. Isabel scurried through the throng,
alert for the least sign of attack from any of the mail-clad figures; in
their silly tin armour with their helmets and flowing velvet cloaks it
was impossible to tell who anybody was: and now, if ever, was the
moment to strike... Through the jostling crowd and into the haven of
her dim, silent, tower. She paused inside the entrance, looking up
the tall ladder, her hand at her heaving bosom in a gesture which for


once had nothing in it of coquetry: and with one foot on the bottom
rung, was suddenly electrified into immobility. Half-way up the ladder,
was something that, to her excited imagination, shone with an evil
glitter in the light from the open door.
Cockrill, left to himself, took up a favourable position in front of the
stage and waited with bored impatience for the fun to begin. The
English and  their  pageants! Nobody enjoyed them, nobody ever
knew what they were intended to represent but it was in the national
character to produce and witness them: and if one was anybody it
was expected of one that one should attend. In North Kent, Cockie
assiduously attended all  the  local  pageants, standing craning his
neck in the crowd and always at a loss to know what in the world
was  going on.  To  come to  London, where he  was  so  pointedly
nobody, and yet still have to go to see one seemed the very height of
indignity. He concentrated all his attention on the hopeless task of
rolling a tidy cigarette: and looked up swiftly as a blare of trumpets
drew the attention of the crowd to the deserted stage. Lights sprang
up among the ferns and hydrangeas tastefully banked up and about
its  base, footlights flooded the  castellated wall  and  the  archway
through the tower: Mr. Port’s ‘arras’ across the archway screened the
waiting knights in  the  Assembly room  from  the  public gaze. The
chattering of the crowd died down to a hum: something was about to
happen on the stage, and whatever it was, was free! What had been
a sea of variegated blobs, now became a sea of pink faces all turned
towards the tower. The trumpets blared again, the footlights bathed
the scene in radiance, dimming in contrast the fierce light of the vast
auditorium below: and to strains of highly martial music, the bead


curtain across the archway was pushed back, and the Knights of
England, Home and Beauty came riding through.
The  white charger walked at  a  stately pace: the  silver armour
gleamed, the silver standard held the white banner high, the long
cloak  flowed out  over  the  horse’s  hindquarters in  folds  of  glossy
velvet. Slowly down the centre of the stage till, through the upthrust
visor, Cockrill could see the blue eyes of the rider gazing down at
him: then it turned abruptly and swung off to the right. The train of
ten  black  horses followed, swinging off  to  right  and  left,  meeting
again beneath the tower, dispersing to their stations for the ‘hollow
square’, the  White Knight in  the  centre: and  so  on  into  the
movements that Charity had plotted out with her little pin-men all
those weeks ago. The velvet cloaks billowed, the tinny spurs jangled,
the knights sat squarely in their saddles, their mailed right hands
glued to  their  standards to  hold  themselves steady,  their  left
clutching the heavily decorated reins. The Grand Chain was coming,
and in the Grand Chain the horses had actually to be urged to a
highly dangerous gallop! Corner to corner... Set to partners... And
finally,  slowly stepping but  gathering pace  until  the  whole was
conducted at  a  fine  jingle-jangling, saddle-creaking, cloak-flowing,
bucketing canter, into the twirling, in-and-out gyrations of the Grand
Chain. The  crowd applauded, the  music changed again with  a
warning note, the pace slowed down, and the knights took up their
final positions in the Tableau of Homage to heaven only knew what:
eight in a semicircle round the curved edge of the stage, staring out
through their up thrust visors at the crowd; one on either side of the
tower,  blue  cloak  to  the  left,  red  cloak  to  the  right,  their  horses’
forefeet posed patiently on  their  wooden blocks; the  white  horse


backed to the audience, facing into the arch, its rider’s white cloak
flowing in its soft velvet folds across its rump and half-way down its
gently swishing tail. The floodlights shifted, gradually ascending to
the darkened window of the tower: and slowly, sickeningly, Isabel’s
body toppled over the low railing of the balcony and landed with a
horrible, soft, slightly scrunching thud on the floor below.


Chapter V
THROUGH THE  COLD HUSH that followed the thud of Isabel’s fall, the
single scream of a woman in the crowd pierced the eardrums like the
whistle of an engine. In the interminable moment that Cockrill stood,
paralysed with horror and astonishment, the whole scene seemed to
dwindle to the dimensions of a toy: a little brightly-lit garish stage
with its tinselly castellated wall and its miniature tower, toy soldiers
motionless on  toy  horses, arranged by  a  child’s  hand  into  their
careful pattern—the half-circle round the edge of the stage, the two
rampant, one  on  either side  of  the  tower.  Even  the  white  horse,
rearing up on its haunches in the centre of the arch seemed caught
for a moment into immobility. But the stillness broke: the toys were
clockwork toys—the little round, painted heads of the riders turned
on their pivots and were fixed again, staring: the white horse reared
and bucked but would not step backwards on to the little heap of
silver at its hind hooves—and suddenly took the bit between its teeth
and bolted through the bead curtain hanging across the archway,
and disappeared from view: and the red knight brought his horse’s
feet down from their wooden block and jerkily dismounted and jerkily
moved forward on his clockwork legs to the body; and jerkily knelt
beside it. The long red velvet cloak flowing about him, hid the silver
from Inspector Cockrill’s view. He began to force his way through the
forward surging crowd, using his  elbows, shoving his  way
desperately along. ‘Let  me  through! I’m  a  police officer!  Let  me
through!’ As he heaved himself up through the banked flowers at its
base, the Red Knight rose unsteadily to his feet, stood for a moment
staring down at the body, and then turned and staggered off abruptly


through the arch: Cockrill called out, but he did not seem to hear. His
hand in the absurd gloves of knitted silver string was held against the
forehead of his helmet, as a man in pain puts the back of his hand to
his brow. By the time Cockrill had gained the floor of the stage, he
was  gone:  but  Brian  Bryan and  Miss  Betchley came through the
arch, Brian still in his armour but with his helmet under his arm. He
looked rather dazed, staring about him almost blindly until his eyes
lighted on  the  body  lying  at  the  foot  of  the  tower: and  he  stood
suddenly very  still.  Miss  Betchley said:  ‘For  God’s  sake  what’s
happened?’ And  also  looked at  the  body.  She  whispered: ‘Earl
Anderson said she was dead.’
Brian Two-Times took off his white cloak, slowly: and silently laid
it over the dreadful form.
Cockrill did not know quite what his position might be: but until
the London police arrived on the scene, he supposed he had better
take over. He went and stood over the covered body. ‘Don’t touch
her. Leave her alone.’ But after all, the girl might not be dead. He
glanced up at the balcony above him: fifteen feet or so—not very far
to fall. He lifted the cloak away from her face. ‘Are you sure she’s
dead?’
‘Earl Anderson said she iss dead,’ said Brian: the foreign accent
came out very strong. He rubbed his palm across his face wearily,
from  the  forehead down. He  repeated: ‘Anderson said:  “She  iss
dead”!’
‘Dead!’ said Susan Betchley. Her old-young face was haggard
and grey beneath its summer tan; but her brown eyes blazed with
something that  was  not  entirely grief  or  horror: her  voice  was  as
deep and throaty as a man’s.


Cockrill pulled back the cloak, leaving the lower half of the body
still covered. It lay face-downwards, the legs bent, the arms at ugly,
crooked angles. He knelt and gingerly turned it as it lay.
Isabel was  dead  all  right.  Her  face  was  honey-coloured no
longer,  but  a  dreadful, dusky purple, her  tongue protruded from
between blue lips and there was a trickle of saliva still dribbling from
a corner of her mouth. He turned his head from the stare of the
terrible, half-closed eyes. The  crowding knights shuddered and
moved back.
Two policemen in uniform and a plain-clothes man had by this
time struggled forward and up to the stage. Cockrill got up and faced
them, one hand still holding back the velvet so that they could see
the face and neck. The spangled chiffon veil was wound tightly round
the plump throat. With his unoccupied hand he fished in his breast
pocket for  identification papers. ‘My  name is  Cockrill, Detective
Inspector, Kent police. I—just happened to be on the spot.’ His voice
trailed off uncertainly. He asked: ‘Whose show is this?’
The plain clothes man said: ‘I’m Stammers, sir: Inspector, local
police. I’m in charge at the Exhibition.’ He looked down at the body.
‘Looks as  though she’d strangled herself. Caught her  veil  in  a
hook...’
No. That slow, thrusting, toppling fall had been unimpeded by
any veil caught in any hook. He let the velvet fall again, to cover the
terrible face,  and  drew  the  inspector a  little  aside. ‘This  is  all  no
business of mine: but I think you’ll find the girl’s been murdered. I
advise you to ring up your station and get a lot more help. A lot more
help!’ He saw the polite incredulity on Stammers’ face, and, slapping


his shabby old felt hat on the back of his head, moved abruptly away.
What a town!
‘Inspector Cockrill!’ said  Stammers. ‘Good lord,  yes:  that
business at the hospital down in Kent...’
‘That  is  considered one  of  my  less  successful cases,’ said
Cockie, coldly. But he felt better, all the same.
The  crowd, stricken immobile by  the  shock of  the  fall,  was
beginning to stir itself into life again. Stammers gave brief orders to
his men: like well trained sheep-dogs they moved off in response,
shepherding back the crowding knights now beginning to push their
way through the bead curtains back into the Assembly room. ‘All
remain ’ere, please. All remain on the stage, please...’ Others went
off  to  man  the  exits  to  the  hall:  Stammers sent  messages to  his
superintendent... And suddenly here was Mr. Port among them on
the stage, appearing at a trot, panting, through the archway. ‘Isabel!
My God!—I saw her fall...’ His feet faltered and were still: the down-
drop of the velvet from Cockrill’s hand had not entirely covered the
unseeing, up-rolled eyes. ‘Oh, God—this is horrible... Isabel!’
Cockrill left Stammers to his job and went through the arch and
into  the  Assembly room. An  empty square, an  unfurnished shell,
save for its single suit of armour lolling drunkenly against the wall, its
helmet askew on the peg above it. He glanced into the empty tube of
the tower: the platform half-way up was flooded with light from the
arc-lamps outside.  A  steep ladder-like flight  of  steps led  to  the
platform: there was nothing and nobody there. He hurried across the
big room and through the doorway opposite the arch. ‘I suggest you
let nobody through,’ he said to the constable who arrived there for
duty  at  about the  same time.  ‘Don’t touch locks  and  things: the


finger-print people may be interested.’ It was none of his business
but... He ran on down the straight corridor leading from the door of
the Assembly room between the empty dressing rooms, and out to
the improvised stables between the rooms and the yard. ‘Anderson!
Hey—Anderson! Are  you  there?’ A  little  man, bowlegged and
horsey-smelling appeared at last. ‘Cor, sir! What ’appened? I was aht
front lookin’ on, and I see the young lady fall...’
‘Who are you?’ said Cockrill.
‘Groom, sir; in charge of the ’orses. I thought I’d better get back,
sir, case anything was needed. Clever’s the name, sir: Bill Clever.’
‘Have you seen one of the knights? He came this way a couple
of minutes ago: well, five minutes, perhaps—directly after the girl fell.
Hey—Anderson!’
But there was nobody there. Earl Anderson’s horse had been
left standing uncertainly on the stage when he blundered away, the
armour he had worn now lay in its single ridiculous piece with the
helmet under the  scarlet cloak  on  the  floor  of  one  of  the  stalls.
Cockrill returned to the stage. Inspector Stammers was in a well-
controlled flurry of activity and at Cockrill’s suggestion he sent a man
out to the nearest official car park, to the nearest constable on point
duty. But there was no news of Earl Anderson. Nor was he anywhere
to be found in the hall.
A Detective Inspector Charlesworth was on his way down from
Scotland Yard. ‘Never heard of him,’ said Inspector Cockrill, with a
gleam of pleasure.
Meanwhile, loudspeakers blared out instructions to the crowds.
The  police  would be  grateful if  anyone who  could give  any
information whatsoever which might help in the matter of the—er—


accident—would report to the officer at such-and-such a gate... All
entrances would be closed for an hour or so but anyone with a good
reason to leave might apply at such-and-such a gate... The crowd,
which would ordinarily have  been  content to  linger on  getting its
money’s worth until late in the evening, was naturally much incensed
at being asked to stay on for an hour, and besieged the officers on
the  gates with  demands that  justice might be  done.  As  to
information, several ladies fainted while describing the horrible faces
they had seen at the window of the tower immediately before Isabel
fell, one old gentleman who lived on grass seemed convinced that if
only Isabel had done the same all this might never have happened, a
lady had had her handbag stolen and considered Elysian Hall a den
of vice, murder, robbery, and with any luck rapine, and seventeen
young men had heard shots ring out at varying times before Isabel
had fallen... The truth was that skill and care had been directed to
attract all attention away from the window so as to prepare for the
Queen of Beauty’s dramatic appearance there: the lights had been
focused on the lower part of the stage, and nobody had been looking
at the window at all, or seen anything whatsoever there. The police
finally broadcast  a  message saying that  everyone who  cared to
might now go home: and the taxpayers demanded indignantly what
the Police Force thought they maintained it for if it didn’t know better
than to let everyone go when, for all they knew, there might be a
murderer walking calmly out of the main entrance at this very minute.
For nobody paid the slightest attention to any suggestion but that of
deliberate and fearful murder. And rightly so.
Inspector Stammers meanwhile had  been  busy  directing his
reinforced troupe of  sheep-dogs: had  rounded up  all  those


connected with the pageant—except for the missing Earl Anderson,
and  had  chivvied them  into  an  office  set  apart  for  them  by  the
authority of  Mr.  Port,  to  await  the  arrival of  Detective Inspector
Charlesworth from Scotland Yard. Cockrill looked round upon them:
Susan Betchley,  grey-faced but  smothering some odd  inner
excitement, Brian Bryan and George Exmouth and the eight other
knights, still  sweating in  their  absurd suits  of  armour with  their
helmets under their arms, Mr. Port, his chubby face puckered with
anxiety... But... Cockrill said suddenly, and his voice was cold with a
rising panic: ‘Where’s Perpetua Kirk?’
Nobody knew.
Detective Inspector Charlesworth was of the ‘Hendon’ school, a
personable young man with a disarming smile and his hair brushed
up into rather maddening little ‘moustaches’ over his ears. Stammers
made a  lightening report and  explained Inspector Cockrill. Mr.
Charlesworth’s favour in the eyes of the Inspector hung wavering in
the balance.
‘Cockrill, Cockrill...’ said Charlesworth, thoughtfully biting upon
his under lip. ‘Where have I...? Oh, yes! It was you who made such
a muck of that hospital case down in Kent!’ Innocent of the slightest
intention to wound, he shook the Inspector thoroughly by the hand.
‘Delighted to have you down here. Hang around!’
‘Thank you,’ said Cockie austerely.
Inspector Stammers outlined the case for an immediate search
for Perpetua. ‘Well, get your chaps to see to it. Get in touch with her
home, of course, and all that: in fact,’ said Charlesworth, frowning a
little anxiously, ‘I think you’d better take over the search yourself.
Inspector Cockrill, I’d like you to stay here, if you will.’ He perched


himself on the edge of the black glass and chromium desk thought
proper for a pageant master down at Elysian Hall, glanced round the
scared rows  of  faces lining the  little,  glassed-in office,  and  said
crisply: ‘Now!’
‘The  girl  was  murdered,’ said  Inspector Cockrill. He  waved a
packet of cigarette papers in Charlesworth’s direction. ‘Any objection
if I smoke?’
‘None in the world,’ said Charlesworth. ‘You say you think this
girl was murdered?’
‘I saw her fall,’ said Cockrill. His fingers fumbled in his pouch for
tobacco. ‘She was—pitched over that railing. She didn’t faint, or trip,
or lean too far forward and topple over: the rail of the balcony was
too high for that. She was, in some way or other heaved up and
pushed over.’
‘And you were watching her? And you saw nobody?’
‘I wasn’t watching her,’ said Cockrill. ‘I was watching the stage—
like everybody else. The window was hardly lit up at all yet, and the
girl wore a full skirt which would have hidden anybody who, say,
lifted her from the knees, and pitched her over, and then dodged
back into the darkness of the tower.’
‘Yes, I see,’ said Charlesworth.
‘And she didn’t catch her veil in any nail,’ added Cockrill firmly:
no nonsense about that.
Charlesworth eyed him rather doubtfully. The little man seemed
somewhat biased in favour of the sensational. ‘What makes you so
frightfully certain that she was murdered?’
‘She  was  told  a  week  before hand  that  she  would be,’  said
Cockie impatiently. (And so had Perpetua been told that she would


be murdered: and Earl Anderson. And now Isabel was dead, and
Anderson had  walked off  the  stage and  disappeared into  the
evening: and Perpetua—where was she? The pit of his stomach felt
sick and cold.)
Charlesworth considered, his behind propped against the black
desk, his long legs stretched out, ankles crossed before him. ‘Well, if
she was murdered, at least the threats have narrowed the field down
very considerably.’
‘Amply assisted by the scene,’ said Cockrill.
‘The scene?’
Cockie’s  brown  fingers played with  his  cigarette. ‘This  is  a
projection of the “sealed room” mystery. The scene of the murder
was  bounded on  one  side  by  a  stage, under the  observation of
several thousand pairs of eyes; and on the other by a locked door,
with somebody sitting on guard on the other side of it. The murderer
must have been within these confines. And the place is as bare as a
biscuit box, so that there is nowhere where he can possibly have
hidden, or remain hidden. With the exception of two people all the
people who were on the scene of the murder, are here now. With the
exception of those two people everyone who could have sent the
threatening notes is here now. Eight of these people—’ he waved his
hand towards the attendant knights—‘could not have sent the notes.
Therefore the  suspects are  automatically reduced to  the  six  who
could. Miss Kirk and this man Anderson are missing: for the rest we
have  Miss  Betchley,  Mr.  Port,  Mr.  Exmouth and  Mr.  Brian  Bryan,
coyly referred to by Miss Drew as Brian Twice.’
‘Brian Two-Times,’ said Brian, irritably.


‘Yes.  So  really,’  said  Charlesworth, getting up  and  starting
towards the door, ‘we may as well let the eight knights go.’
‘When we  have heard their  evidence,’ suggested Cockie,
sweetly. Charlesworth returned to his desk, a trifle flushed.
Susan Betchley looked up from the chair where she sat with her
well-turned legs just a little ungracefully crossed. ‘Of course you can
say that I didn’t stay on the door.’
‘Of course,’ said Cockie.
‘In which case, I could be the murderer.’
‘Of course,’ said Charlesworth, getting it in first.
‘You are either the murderer or you aren’t,’ said Cockrill. ‘If you
are—we shall soon find out. If you aren’t—then you are one factor of
the “sealed room”.’ It all sounded nice and simple.
‘In sealed room mysteries,’ said Charlesworth, interrupting this
pleasant interchange with what was intended to be a dash of cold
water, ‘the solution is never really anything to do with the room being
sealed. The murderer has always gone into the room before it was
sealed: and he gets away after it’s unsealed.’
‘Miss Betchley will tell us who may have got in and out of the
room under those conditions,’ said Cockie. ‘But of course that theory
would entirely disregard the clue of the threatening notes.’ He sat
back and crossed his bony knees, comfortably: two up to the old
man!
Miss Betchley got down to business. ‘Nobody else ever went
into  the  “sealed room”. At  twenty-five to  six  I  went  out  on  to  the
empty stage. There is no sort or kind of place there where a fly could
hide. I went through the arch and stood in the doorway of the tower. I
switched on the electric light and looked up towards the platform:


there was definitely nothing and nobody in the tower. I came back
through the empty assembly room and from then on I never moved
away from the big door leading in to it. Nobody went in or out of that
door except Mr. Port, Isabel Drew, Miss Kirk and the eleven knights.’
‘Somebody might have climbed up on to the stage,’ suggested
Mr. Port, diffidently.
Inspector Cockrill startled Mr. Charlesworth by suddenly asking
permission to  speak. ‘Of  course, of course—go  ahead. And  say
anything you want to, any time, Inspector: don’t mind me.’
Cockrill tucked away the permission obtained by these shock
tactics with a small, grim smile of satisfaction. ‘I was merely going to
say that it was impossible for anyone to have got up on to the stage
without its being noticed by a hundred people in the crowd. I did it
myself later on. The air was thick with running commentary, “He’s
climbing up  through the  ferns...” “He’s  nearly on  to  the  stage...”
“Now he’s got right up...”’
‘Like the people behind one in the cheap seats at the cinema,’
said  Charlesworth, pleasantly.  Nobody seemed to  share his
familiarity with the cheap seats at the cinema, however: it was sticky
going. Personally he thought the old boy was just having a beautiful
pipe-dream with his ‘heaved over’ and ‘pitched across the railing’
and all the rest of it: getting past his job a bit, no doubt, and all those
threatening notes had gone to his head.
A constable knocked at the door and handed in a folded note.
The eyes of the eleven poor prisoners turned to it eagerly, shifted,
glanced politely aside. Charlesworth read it through twice and then
put it into his pocket. He said to the constable: ‘All right. Tell the


police surgeon I’m  glad  to  have  this,  and  I’ll  wait  for  his  final
confirmation.’
Meanwhile, said  the  note,  Isabel Drew had  died  within one
minute either way  of  hitting the  ground. She  had  died  of  manual
strangulation: no chiffon veil caught on nails—nothing like that. She
had been in what amounted to a ‘sealed room’ with eleven knights in
phoney armour: and while the eleven knights sat their horses in full
view of several thousand people, one of them had gone up into the
tower and strangled her and thrown her down.
All about them, beyond the glass windows of the little office, the
exhibition proceeded upon its  course, the  buzz and  chatter
heightened almost  to  a  roar  by  the  violent excitement of  Isabel’s
terrible end. Never again would the young ladies with the Slomber
Nets do so much business: if the exhibitors had had their way a fresh
young woman  would have  been  sacrificed every night  upon  the
tower as long as the exhibition remained open. Meanwhile the buzz
and chatter and clamour rolled on...
Within Susan Betchley there glowed a fire which would not be
concealed: but  she  lowered her  lids  upon  the  blaze of  it,  and
continued with her account of the evening, precisely and clearly. ‘The
pageant was due to begin at six o’clock. At twenty-five to, I looked
over the whole place, as I’ve told you. There was nobody behind the
scenes yet, the dressing rooms were empty, the horses were in their
stables with Bill Clever, the groom in charge: and nobody else. And
there was nobody on the stage or in the tower or anywhere in the
Assembly room—you can take my word for that. At about twenty-to
the knights began to arrive. Most of them spoke to me before going
into the Assembly room to collect their armour. They always used to


rehearse in armour, of course, because of getting themselves and
the  horses used  to  it:  they’d  developed different habits,  some of
them changed in the Assembly room itself and then clanked back to
the  stalls  to  get  their  horses, some of  them  lugged their  armour
through and changed in the stalls. You couldn’t tell which did what:
and  once they  were in  the  armour,  they  were practically
unrecognizable anyway. I checked them all in: by ten-to everybody
had arrived except Mr. Anderson. At least I thought he hadn’t come
yet. I was worried and I spoke to Mr. Port about it. Mr. Port said not
to worry: he went and knocked on Miss Drew’s door and she called
out to him, and then he went away towards the dressing rooms and I
didn’t see him again. But a few moments later Miss Kirk turned up
and she said that Earl Anderson was there all the time.’
‘Did anyone else see him to speak to?’ asked Charlesworth of
the company in general.
Nobody had. ‘But then of course he must have ridden on later
with all the other knights,’ said Miss Betchley. ‘Because after all, he
was there.’
‘Yes, now—tell us about that.’
‘Well,  Mr.  Bryan rode  through  first  as  he  always does  at
rehearsals, and took up his place as the leader of the knights. I said
a  word  to  him.  Wished him  luck  and  so  on.  The  others  came
jumbling through in ones and twos and sorted themselves out into
their  proper order: some of  them  mounted in  the  stalls  and  rode
through, others led their horses and mounted in the Assembly room.
By now it must have been seven or eight minutes to the hour. Miss
Kirk was rather late.’


‘I kept her “rather late”,’ said Cockrill. ‘I couldn’t see what she
wanted to go mucking about behind the scenes for anyway, since it
wasn’t her job—and she was scared. But she said that she’d got into
the habit of it, and Miss Betchley would be needing her—so off she
went.’ Even to his own dry heart he would not acknowledge how
bitterly he  regretted now  that  he  had  ever  let  her  go:  pretty,
frightened, unhappy Perpetua...
‘Well, anyway, very soon afterwards, Miss Drew came out of her
room and  went  quickly across the  Assembly room. Miss  Kirk
followed her and said something to her, and then Miss Drew went
into her tower, and Miss Kirk left the Assembly room and went down
towards the dressing rooms: she generally went and checked up that
all the knights were ready. There’s a whole wilderness of dressing
rooms and corridors back there.’
‘And you?’
‘There were only one or two more knights to come: as soon as
I’d checked them all in, I locked the door on them to keep them
safely there, and sat down on my little stool outside it: and I just sat
on there, whistling away to myself and never moved away.’
‘What did you whistle?’ said Charlesworth, unexpectedly. (These
University detectives with their fancy ways!)
Miss  Betchley  looked surprised. ‘I  only know  one  tune:  so  I
expect it was that. “Sur le pont D’Avignon...”’
‘And  you  never moved away at  all?’  said  Cockrill, sticking
pointedly to the matter in hand.
‘I never budged.’
‘This is awfully important,’ said Charlesworth, earnestly. ‘If for
any reason—any reason at all, quite unconnected with the murder,


perhaps—you moved from that stool, it’s your duty to say so. In fact,
it may be very much to your advantage to say so.’
‘Because after the knights had ridden through on to the stage,
I’m the only person who could have followed Isabel up to the tower
and murdered her.’
Charlesworth made her a little bow. ‘You have a singularly clear
mind.’
‘Well,  I  have  a  singularly clear  conscience too,’  said  Susan
Betchley, coolly. ‘And I tell you flat that I didn’t budge an inch.’
‘And nobody went through after that? Not even Miss Kirk or Mr.
Port?’
Miss Betchley shook her head firmly. ‘I—well, I was in and out of
the Assembly room and the dressing rooms seeing to things,’ said
Mr. Port, hurriedly. ‘And then I went and stood in the crowd. There
was nothing more for me to do. Miss Betchley had the whole thing
well in hand, all the knights had arrived, Isabel—Miss Drew—was
already in her dressing room changing. I wanted to see from out
front what the effects were like: I wanted to listen to the comments of
the  people, and  generally see  how  things went. Just  for  future
reference you know...’ He mopped his pink forehead. ‘I—I saw her
fall.’
Eleven knights.  And  Isabel. In  what  amounted to  a  ‘sealed
room’. And while the eleven knights sat their horses in full view of
several thousand people, one of them had gone up into the tower
and strangled her with his hands: and thrown her down.
Proceedings were interrupted by the arrival of Charlesworth’s
henchman, Sergeant Bedd: large, thickset, grizzled, kindly,  in  his
stove-pipe utility suit. He had come from a cursory search of Earl


Anderson’s flat. Nobody there. ‘And, funny thing, sir,’ said Sergeant
Bedd, eyeing Charlesworth for permission to speak in front of the old
boy in the comic mackintosh—obvious police of some kind, all the
same—‘what’s more no bedroom slippers: if you see what I mean.’
Charlesworth saw what he meant at once. ‘Done a bunk, eh?
Oh, by the way, Sergeant, this is Inspector Cockrill Kent police.’
Sergeant Bedd’s  large face  took  on  a  look  of  mingled
excitement and awe. ‘Good lord, sir: not Inspector Cockrill? Not that
affair  of  the  sanded paths down at  Swansmere? And  them
decapitations at Pigeonsford?’
‘And  the  anaesthetic deaths at  Heron’s  Park  hospital,’ said
Inspector Cockrill, grimly.
‘Ah,  yes:  you  was  unfortunate there, sir.  These things do
happen: you’ll remember, Mr. Charlesworth, we had a bit of a slip-up
ourselves in that yachting business down in Devonshire?’
An extraordinarily pleasant fellow, really, for a Londoner. And
observant too.  ‘You  say  Anderson’s  slippers are  missing  from  his
flat?’
‘That’s  right, sir,’  said  Bedd.  ‘And  his  shaving tackle and
toothbrush and  things. Of  course they  may  be  poked  away
somewhere: I didn’t take time to have a real good search. But I had
the impression that the gent had done a bunk, sir. If that’s what you
expected?’ He cocked his head to one side like an intelligent, elderly
rough-haired terrier.
‘We’re getting the ports and stations and things watched,’ said
Charlesworth to Cockrill. ‘So he can’t get far. After all he was in the
building less than an hour ago.’


‘If he was in the building,’ said Cockrill: two could play at the
fancy stuff.
Left to their own devices in the office, the ten knights fell to a
discussion of Isabel’s death, bored or excited according to the parts
they had decided to play—for most of them were out-of-work actors
and  incapable  of  being merely themselves. Mr.  Port  sat  silent,
wringing his pudgy hands. Miss Betchley moved over unobtrusively
to Brian Two-Times, perched on the edge of his chair, drumming with
his feet on the ground, his blue eyes afire. He said contemptuously:
‘Vonderful exhibition we have now of the English police force. Talk-
talk-talk and nothing do. Terrific!’
‘These people talk,’ she said: ‘but there are a lot of others doing
things behind the  scenes. Fingerprints and—checking-up  and  all
that.  I  don’t  think  they’re as  casual as  they  seem.’ She  added
deliberately: ‘For my part, they can be as casual as they like.’
He eyed her, her air of odd triumph. ‘You are not sorry, for one,
to see Jezebel die?’
‘Revenge is sweet,’ she said, her eyes on his.
He thought it over quietly. Then he said with an air of finality:
‘Yes.’
She moved a little closer to him. ‘I thought I would tell you—if
there’s anything more I can do...’
He had an odd little movement of the head, drawing in his chin
as though puzzled, considering deeply, jutting it out again. He said,
mystified: ‘What then can you do?’
‘For you, I mean,’ she said.
‘For me? What can you do for me?’
‘I told them about your being first in the line,’ she said.


He drew in his chin again. ‘Well—so I woss first in the line. You
saw me, you spoke to me.’
‘Exactly.’
‘But it does not need your testimony. Everybody knows I woss
there. And besides the girl was killed after this: by that time I woss
on the stage.’
‘Oh,  yes,  I  know  you  were  on  the  stage.’ She  raised  her
eyebrows a little and moved away. ‘I only wanted you to know,’ she
said.
Sergeant Bedd, notebook in hand, took down the evidence of
the eight knights, and Charlesworth sent them off to their homes.
‘We’ve  got  your  names and  addresses: and  we’ve got  your
assurances, which  I  may  as  well  remind you  we  can,  and  most
definitely will, check, that you none of you ever so much as spoke to
Miss Drew outside the exhibition, and then only in the ordinary way
of business—the pageant, a drink in the pub and so forth. Is there
anything anybody wants to add: or is that O.K.?’
The knights chorused in plushy voices made plushier by RADA
that this was indeed so; and so were dismissed to their homes and
eventually from the case. None of them had so much as been to
Elysian Hall at the time that the ‘murder notes’ had been planted on
the intended victims; none of them had moved from the semi-circle
at the edge of the stage. There was no use cluttering up the case,
thought Charlesworth, with  impossible suspects. They  had  quite
enough to go on with.
The police surgeon arrived with his little black bag. Charlesworth
spoke to him outside the office door. ‘Hallo, doc? Have you finished
mucking about with the lovely?’


‘Yes, I’ve finished,’ said the doctor, swinging the black bag gaily
in one hand. ‘And I must say, a nice little armful she must have been
when she was alive!’
‘She’s  a  nice  little  handful now  that  she’s  dead,’  said
Charlesworth. ‘Must you stick to this manual strangulation business?
It makes things very awkward for me. You don’t think she can have
caught her veil in a hook or something after all? There seem to be
some pretty stout nails up there, holding up all that ridiculous tin ivy.’
‘No I do not: the veil was twisted round her throat probably just
in case of finger marks; but somebody had taken two hands to her,
outside the veil. It wasn’t the veil that killed her: and it wasn’t the
rope. By the way, you haven’t seen her since we got down to the job,
have you? We found some rummy bits and pieces when we started
moving her about. Ropes and things. But she was strangled with two
hands.’ He cheerfully departed: his not to reason how Isabel could
have  been  manually strangled by  one  of  eleven people at  least
fifteen feet away from her.
Cockrill, in  a  fever  to  see  the  rummy bits  and  pieces, was
nevertheless consumed with anxiety about Perpetua. Charlesworth
departed for another look at the body, with instructions to Sergeant
Bedd  to  fill  in  the  interval by  taking down the  statements of  the
suspects, one by one: Cockrill saw no obligation to follow him, or to
remain and have his testimony taken by the sergeant. He trotted off
unobtrusively and sought out Inspector Stammers. ‘Any news?’
Stammers shook  his  head. ‘Not  a  sausage. She  hasn’t  been
home, she hasn’t rung up anywhere, she isn’t with any of her friends
that we can rake up... And she isn’t in the building—not this part
anyway, not as far as we can see.’


‘Alive or dead?’ said Cockie, without expression.
‘Neither. Of course this place is a nightmare of hiding places.’
He  put  a  hand  for  a  moment on  the  little  man’s  shoulder.  ‘Don’t
worry. We’re doing our best.’
‘All  right,  all right.’  said  Cockie crossly.  ‘I’m  not  the  doting
grandfather, you know.’ He walked smartly away.
The man on duty at the Assembly room door seemed to take it
for  granted that  he  had  a  right  of  access, and  he  went  in,  and
through the arch on to the stage. The body had been screened off
from the avid curiosity of the exhibition sightseers, and Charlesworth
was bending over it as Cockrill advanced. He glanced up briefly:
‘Any news of Miss Kirk?’
‘None,’ said Cockrill.
‘Nothing heard yet of Anderson either.’ He returned to the body.
‘Look what we’ve found!’
Isabel’s twisted legs and arms had been mercifully straightened
out. She looked very quiet and composed now, lying there covered
by the cotton sheet, waiting more patiently than in life she had ever
waited for anything, to be taken away to the cold loneliness of the
mortuary. Cockrill bent over her, his hands on his knees. ‘What are
these? Ropes?’
A length of rope, about five feet long, and another, the same
length, of stout twine. Each was tied in a noose. ‘They found them
under the  skirt  of  her  dress  when they  turned her  over,’  said
Charlesworth.
Cockie picked them up gingerly, and examined the ends, turning
them over curiously in his brown fingers. ‘Most illuminating!’


‘Yes,’  said  Charlesworth, doubtfully.  He  glanced up  at  the
balcony above their heads. ‘No nonsense about lassos and things,
though. That must be fourteen or fifteen feet up—the archway’s at
least twelve, to allow for the knights riding through with their fixed
standards and  all  that:  and  another three  feet  up  to  the  balcony.
Then the girl’s neck would be another four or five feet above her feet,
if you see what I mean. So all in all...’ He appraised it carefully. ‘I
think we could safely say twenty feet. So a rope five feet long made
into  a  noose would not  do  much lassoing, And  anyway why  two
lassos?’
‘It’s all very—confusing,’ said Cockie, with a light in his eye.
‘But then, of course there’s this: the knights on either side of the
arch were sitting on horses which were sort of reared up on their
hind legs. Say a man in that position is—what?—nine feet to the
shoulder? He raises his arm, that’s another goodish bit, and then
perhaps throws the lasso up a little, and the rope’s five feet...’ He
broke off for a moment. ‘Of course it’s rather a new bit of rope: it
would have shown up very white against all that ivy.’
‘The lights would not have moved up to the ivy perhaps,’ said
Cockie. ‘Attention would have been concentrated on the knights.’
‘Yes.’  He  grew  quite  excited.  ‘I  wonder! What do  you  think,
Inspector? Could it have been done?’
‘It might,’ said Cockie. ‘The girl died of manual strangulation, of
course, but that’s a detail. It might have been done, as you say—if
the rope had had hands.’
They each had an ugly little vision of a rope with hands: of the
stout  twine  curling itself  into  stringy fingers, knotted and  twisted,
seeking out the warm, round, golden throat. ‘Well, all I can say, then,’


said  Charlesworth, laying them  back  in  their  wrappings, slightly
crestfallen, ‘is what on earth were the two ropes for? They must have
been chucked down with the body I suppose.’ He cheered up a little.
‘Perhaps he just brought them along in case.’
Cockrill doubted whether there had been much ‘in case’ about
this crime. He said: ‘Anything else?’
‘Yes, this.’ Charlesworth fished out a small cellophane envelope:
it contained a slip of paper, with some typewriting on it—but this time
there were no pin-men. ‘It’s a poem, if you’ll believe me! Or shall we
say a verse?’
‘Let’s hear it, either way,’ said Cockie, impatiently. ‘We’re not the
B.B.C. Third Programme.’
Charlesworth recited it  with  relish. ‘I’ve  learnt it  off  by  heart
already!
‘“Oh, Isabel, how beautiful thy face is!
It brings out homage in unexpected places.
And so the donor of this little gift
Is who?—the Mystery Knight upon the left!”’
He looked at Cockrill alertly. ‘What do you make of that?’
‘Most illuminating,’ said Cockie again.
‘The knight upon her left would be Earl Anderson.’
Cockie scratched his ear. ‘So much depends upon an “e” or a
“y”.
Charlesworth recited the poem through to himself again. ‘H’m,
yes. So it does, doesn’t it?’ He lifted the sheet away from the body
and looked down, pitifully, at the dreadful face and the little crook’d,
plump hands. ‘She looks like a dead canary, doesn’t she, poor little


thing? Lying on the bottom of its cage with its pathetic bent claws...’
In the centre of her breast there gleamed among the silver, her only
jewellery, a diamond brooch. ‘We found the paper tucked down the
front of her bodice.’
‘What there is of it,’ said Cockie severely. He glanced at the
cellophane envelope. ‘Is there a—pinhole in the paper?’
Charlesworth looked at him alertly. ‘Two pinholes. In fact they
tore it badly taking it out of her bodice.’
‘Interesting,’ said Cockie.
If he found it so interesting, why couldn’t the maddening little
man  say  why? Charlesworth, all  unconscious of  the  slightest
antagonism, permitted himself a quizzical lift of the eyebrow. ‘You
think it’s important?’
‘I think it may be vital,’ said Cockie.
Charlesworth grinned outright. ‘You  think  it  tells  us  who  the
murderer is?’
‘Yes,’ said Cockie, eyeing him steadily back. ‘I think that, read
properly, it could tell us who the murderer is. And how, when he was
more than fifteen feet away from her, he could have strangled Isabel
Drew with both hands round her throat. It certainly tells us who the
murderer isn’t.  And  I  think  it  might suggest new  methods  in  the
search for Earl Anderson.’ He bent down and absently pulled up the
sheet again, to  cover the  dead  girl’s  face.  ‘I  don’t  say  it  would
necessarily be  right,’ he  said.  ‘There are  more  ways  than  one  in
which this poor girl may have been killed—at random one can think
of, let’s see—one, two, three... But the ropes, and the sheet and the
brooch, and above all the poem—they do suggest one of them: and
especially if there was a pinhole in the paper. So I do think that it’s—


well—mildly important.’ He slammed his old felt hat sideways on his
magnificent head and marched away. Young jackanapes!
A constable, galloping down the main corridor, met him half-way
to the dressing rooms. ‘We think we’ve found her, sir. Mr. Stammers
sent me for you.’ He started to run back down the echoing passages,
and thrust open the door of a dark little room...
Stammers was there with a couple of men, employed in heaving
aside the heavy stage scenery stacked against the further wall. ‘Look
out... Be careful you don’t drop it back on her... Look out, you fool!’
In  the  cobwebby angle of  the  wall  lay  what  looked like  a  large
bundle, covered by a cloak of bottle green velvet.
The  hiding place had  been  carefully chosen. You  might  look
there a dozen times before you would notice the thin white hand
protruding from beneath the dark cloth.


Chapter VI
MISS  BETCHLEY,  MR.  PORT and Motherdear sat patiently on the shiny
round chairs of Mr. Port’s little office, waiting to be allowed to go
home. Brian Two-Times paced up and down like a lion caged. ‘These
English police! How true they are vonderful! Two hours now passes
and nothing done. Whole thing is idyotic!’ Even Miss Betchley was
beginning to feel that if Brian Two-Times said just once more that the
whole thing was idyotic she would go mad. ‘Stuck in here, prevented
from going out, not knowing what iss going on...’ For the hundredth
time  he  poked his  head  out  of  the  door  and  appealed to  the
constable. The constable replied for the hundredth time that he was
Only Obeying Orders.
Charlesworth arrived carrying Perpetua easily in  his  strong
young arms, with Cockrill rather sourly bringing up the rear (muscle
isn’t everything!) ‘Put her down here,’ said Cockie, pulling forward
the only armchair. He shoved aside the eager questioners. ‘She’s all
right.  Only  fainted. Muffled  up  in  a  damn great  cloak  and  nearly
stifled, poor girl.’ He dipped his brown fingers into the water jug and
smartly patted her face. ‘Come along, child. Pull yourself together.’
As  she  rolled her  weary head, laying it  with  a  little  gesture of
exquisite relief and trust against his arm, he put the other arm about
her shoulder and gave her a little shake. ‘She’s been locked up in
one of the dressing rooms, poked away behind a lot of lumber, poor
little devil.’ He added to Brian Two-Times in a conversational tone of
voice: ‘She says you put her there.’
‘I?’  said  Brian staring wildly about him.  He  looked absurdly
handsome, still in his shining tin armour, his helmet, with the white


cloak thrown over it, under one arm, the other hand clutching at his
own bright hair. ‘What for I should put her there? What for I should
lock her up?’
Perpetua rolled her head against Cockrill’s arm. ‘It was him: it
was him! He pushed me in and—and threw the cloth over my head,
and tied it round, and then he sort of dragged me over and pushed
me down into that awful corner, wherever it was. And he said—he
said, “I com back!” He doesn’t say “come back” he says “com”. It
was him! He lured me into that horrible place and I’ve been locked
up there all this time...’ She shuddered and closed her eyes again:
sick and dizzy with the very memory of her terror.
Brian looked as if he would blow up at any moment. ‘I lure her
into som room? I tell her, “I com back!” I have not seen her since—
since she was speaking to Isabel Drew in the Assembly room: I was
waiting on my horse and I saw her then. I have not been since off my
horse till the pageant is over.’
‘I went back to the corridor,’ she said, ignoring him. ‘I went along
to the various dressing rooms to chivvy up any of the knights that still
weren’t ready. His voice called to me from one of the rooms...’ She
broke down, gulping wretchedly.
Charlesworth tenderly passed her a glass of water. Cockie said
brusquely: ‘Come along now—pull yourself together.’
‘I’m sorry,’ she said. ‘Well, so his voice called out to me. He
called out,  “Oh,  Perpetua”, or  “Miss Kirk”, or  whatever it  was
—“please come and help me with this armour: I’m stuck!” Well, of
course I didn’t hesitate for a moment: they were always getting stuck
—I  thought his  visor  had  probably jammed: his  voice  did  sound
rather muffled—and that was the sort of job I was there for. So I just


ran down the corridor and into the dressing room... Well, it wasn’t
one of the usual dressing rooms, I just had time to take that in—
there was a lot of stuff stored there as far as I could see; but there he
was, just as I expected to see him, in his armour, with his visor down.
So I went up to him, to help him to unstick it, as I thought: and he—
he caught me by the arm and threw the dark thing over me...
‘Ah!—so you did not then see my face?’ said Brian.
‘How could I see your face when you had your visor down? But
you said: “I com back”! Do you think I don’t know your voice?’
He  looked  at  her,  dumbfounded. He  said  at  last:  ‘My  voice  I
suppose is easy to imitate. I say fonny things. But who then can want
to imitate my voice?’
She ignored him again. There seemed a compulsion upon her to
tell everything now, to get it all out of her system, as if she would go
mad if she kept one detail of the whole terrifying experience for one
moment longer bottled up  in  her  breast. ‘I  didn’t hear  him  move
away: I suppose I was so dazed by the whole thing and by being
thrown down...  And  there  was  the  cloth  over  my  head.  I  tried  to
wriggle free but I couldn’t. But I could hear one of the knights riding
by, and then I think another: I tried to call out to them, but my voice
was all muffled by the cloak. And I was afraid he was outside the
door: I was afraid he would come back. Then everything was silent,
and I could just hear somebody whistling very softly: and then there
was a sort of muffled banging and then I—I heard his voice again... I
didn’t hear what he was saying, I didn’t hear anything... But it was
his voice...’ She shrank back against Cockrill’s shoulder. ‘I was so
horrified by the very sound of it that I—I think I must have fainted. I
can’t remember anything more at all.’


Cockrill thought Brian Two-Times would certainly go off his head
with the impotence of his rage and bewilderment. ‘Thiss iss idyotic! I
—why should I do this to her? I do not want to hurt her!’ He looked
like  a  wounded  teddy-bear,  desperately hurt  and  angry.  His  blue
eyes blazed, his hair stood up in crisp curls as though electrified by
his excitement. ‘Anybody can imitate my voice.’
‘And you say yourself that it was rather muffled,’ said Susan
Betchley to Perpetua. She could not take her eyes from Brian Two-
Times’ anxious face.
Charlesworth was developing a slightly frantic air. ‘Supposing for
the sake of argument that this was someone imitating Mr. Bryan’s
voice?’
‘Then it  could have  been  any  of  the  knights,’ said  Susan
Betchley eagerly.  ‘Any  of  them.  By  that  time  there  would be  a
hopeless muddle in the Assembly room, Inspector: the place was
crammed with knights—after all, eleven men on horses take up quite
a bit of room. And the horses were restless, waiting to go on, and
moved about and stamped and tossed their heads: most of the riders
couldn’t manage them at all—some of them used not to mount till the
last moment, but stood at their horses’ heads, holding the reins. The
place was just packed tight with men and horses: you couldn’t tell
who anybody was.’
‘Except by the colour of his cloak?’
Something pricked  at  Inspector Cockrill’s  subconscious, as
though trying to prise out a winkle of relevant memory: something
about colour,  something about recognizing the  knights... But  it
slithered back into its shell. Miss Betchley was hurrying on.


‘Except by the colour of the cloaks, of course. Each rider knew
which cloak to follow, and as the leaders went through the arch and
made more space, they all sorted out and fell into their places. All
the cloaks were different.’
Charlesworth spun  round on  Peppi. ‘Did  the  knight in  the
dressing room wear a cloak?’
‘He  had  one  thrown over  his  shoulder,’  said  Perpetua. She
looked at Brian defiantly. ‘It was white, and yours is white.’
For  just  one  moment it  was  as  though a  balloon had  been
pricked and was slowly collapsing. But the puncture mended itself,
the balloon reinflated. ‘Thiss cloak perhaps was folded outside-in. All
the linings of all the cloaks are white.’
Brian Two-Times turned round on Motherdear, who had sat very
quiet and miserable all this time, gazing with a sort of stupefied pity
at Perpetua. ‘You do not say anything! And yet—there iss only you
and me. Earl Anderson has disappeared—but, if we count him in too,
then iss you and me and Anderson. Your cloak is blue, his woss red:
but all have white linings.’
‘And  of  course the  cloak thrown over  Miss  Kirk  was  bottle
green,’ said Inspector Cockrill thoughtfully. If he added that that was
most illuminating, thought Charlesworth, this would be the end!
Isabel’s body had been removed at last: the fingerprinting and
footprinting and photographing and measuring were done. ‘I think I’d
like you to all come on to the stage,’ said Charlesworth. ‘I want Miss
Betchley to  reconstruct for  me  exactly what  happened after  Miss
Drew fell.’
Miss Betchley’s little stool still stood outside the big door of the
Assembly room. ‘I saw all the knights in: then I bolted the door from


my side and sat down to wait. I heard the bugles blow and then the
jingling as the knights rode off: I couldn’t hear much after they all got
on to the stage. After about—well, actually it was twelve minutes,
wasn’t it?—I heard the music change for Miss Drew’s appearance,
and  then  stop  and  I  knew  she  must  be  coming out  to  make her
speech. And then suddenly I heard the faint sound of a scream...’
‘A woman in the crowd,’ said Cockrill. ‘I remember.’
‘And  then  I  heard  the  sound of  a  horse’s  hooves in  the
Assembly room, and then a sort of thud. And a bit more moving
about. I—I was just going to open the door and find out what was
going on, when Mr. Bryan came and opened it from the inside. He
had his helmet off and his hand up to his forehead and he looked
rather dazed. He said: “Something fell over the balcony. My horse
bolted.” He hardly seemed to know what he was talking about...’
Brian made an impatient gesture but Charlesworth waved her on,
and  she  continued rapidly,  not  looking at  either of  them.  ‘I  said,
“What fell?” and I think he said could it have been Isabel, or it must
have been Isabel or something like that. He seemed quite vague and
stupid. I went into the Assembly room and bolted the door behind me
on the inside. We crossed the room: and on our way we met Mr.
Anderson—the Red Knight. I suppose we said: “What’s happened?”
or something like that; he just said, “She’s dead”, and went on past
us: he had his hand up to his face. We went on towards the arch. I
didn’t quite know whether we should go through or what, so instead I
turned aside for a minute, and went into the tower, and looked to see
if Miss Drew was there. She wasn’t. I ran half-way up the ladder, so
that I could see on to the platform, but there was nobody there. So
then I knew that she must have fallen. Mr. Bryan was waiting for me,


just leaning sort of helplessly against the side of the tower doorway.
He pulled himself together and we went through on to the stage.’
She spoke very quickly but carefully: as though watching her step.
She avoided Brian’s eye.
But Brian Two-Times was not to be silenced any more. His eyes
were  brilliant, his  throat a  clear  column above the  rigid  circular
shining neck of his armour. He faced Susan Betchley with his alert,
challenging, slightly quizzical glance. ‘What is this? Why this fonny
talk? “I woss just going to open the door...” “Mr. Bryan com and open
the door...”? You know quite well you are banging and rattling at the
door, and I com and the inside is bolted and I pull back the bolt and
let you in.’ He said to Charlesworth: ‘My horse is jomping with fright
on the stage. I was well under the balcony, the body must have fallen
right  on  his  tail:  he  is  frightened, he  bucks and  jomps, he  bolts
forward. I am used to riding; but I am in this silly armour, I am like a
sardine in a tin: I topple as he jomps forward through the arch. I
suppose I must have fallen off. When I remember, I am sitting on the
floor outside the Assembly room with a big bomp on my head, and
the horse is standing quietly, asking: “What are you doing there, you
fool?” There iss hammering on the door. I do not exactly know what I
am doing, but if there is hammering on a door you go and open. I
went to the door. It is bolted from inside. I open, and she comes in
saying, “What iss  it?”’  He  tucked in  his  chin,  looking at  her  from
beneath wrinkled brows. ‘Why does she say now, “I woss just going
to open the door”? The door wass bolted. She could not open it.’
Susan Betchley answered obliquely. ‘Well—who bolted it?’ she
said.
He shrugged his shoulders extravagantly. ‘I did not!’


‘But that door never used to be bolted from the inside,’ she said
to Charlesworth.
‘It seems to have been this time,’ he said. The whole thing was
absolutely hay-wire.
Inspector Cockrill looked thoughtfully at Miss Betchley. ‘You say
you bolted the door after you on the inside, when you went into the
Assembly room to investigate?’
‘I  thought it  would be  safer:  something seemed to  have
happened, and we didn’t want unauthorized people swarming in.’
Cockie swung round on Mr. Port. ‘Then how did you get in?’
What little colour there was, drained right away from the flaccid
cheeks. ‘I? Well, I was... I was out in the crowd watching, and I saw
Isabel fall...’
‘I suppose Anderson unbolted the door as he went out,’ said
Charlesworth. ‘Mr. Port didn’t come in till after that.’
Cockrill gave him a glance that would have annihilated a less
resilient spirit. ‘Thank you: I had worked that out for myself. I was just
wondering if Mr. Port would have the same explanation.’
Mr. Port rubbed his hands drearily together. He repeated dully: ‘I
was out in the crowd, watching the pageant. I saw her fall. I ran
round as quickly as I could to the back-stage regions, and along the
corridors to the Assembly room. The door wasn’t bolted then. I just
pushed it and it opened and I went through and on to the stage.’
‘You didn’t meet Anderson on his way out?’
‘I didn’t meet anyone,’ said Sugar-Daddy, drearily. ‘I didn’t see
anyone.’ And he rubbed his hands together again and said sadly:
‘Poor Isabel!’


And  suddenly Miss  Betchley’s  calm  deserted her.  Her  brown
eyes flashed, her brown hands clenched into tight fists, her brown
jaw was aggressively out-thrust: there was something extraordinarily
masculine about the  strength of  that  jaw,  the  firm  line  of  her
handsome mouth, the hard clench of the lean brown hands. She
said:  ‘Poor Isabel? Poor  Jezebel, more like!  That’s  what  Earl
Anderson used to call her; and he was right. What good did she ever
do,  that  you  should pity  her  now,  when she’s  met  with  her  just
deserts? What good did she do to you, Mr. Port, a man of your age,
fooling around with a woman like her? What good did she do you,
George Exmouth, flaunting her vulgar charms before you, and you a
young boy with a—a decent heart and a clean mind...? What good
did she do to you, Perpetua Kirk, leading you into the ways she did,
thrusting you into the arms of that Anderson creature...? What good
—what good  did  she  do  any  of  us?  What good  did  she  do  to
Johnny?’ Her voice died away almost into tears: but she raised it
again and said, loudly and fiercely, with a harsh and ugly intonation,
and yet with something in it of great pain and great dignity: ‘She was
rotten: vulgar and greedy, and heartless, and immoral... How can
you say, “Poor Isabel”? Jezebel, I say: and good riddance to her,
however it was she died.’ She turned and walked apart from them a
little: and stood very still with her back to them, her hands up over
her face.
‘Jezebel!’ said Inspector Cockrill. He raised his head and stared
up at the foolish narrow window and the little balcony. ‘And she went
up into a high tower,’ he recited. ‘And she painted her face and tired
her head, and she looked out of the window...’ He paused, glancing
about him brightly.


Sergeant Bedd’s eyes shone. ‘And they threw her down—three
eunuchs it was, sir, threw her down: and her blood was sprinkled
upon the wall: and the horses trod on her, and the dogs came and
licked her up, every bit: all but her skull and the palms of her hands
and the soles of her feet...’
‘Such peculiar bits  to  leave, I’ve  always thought,’ said
Charlesworth. ‘How does one eat a person up, all but the soles of
their feet?’
‘And of course the horse did not tread on her,’ said Brian.
‘No,’ said Cockie. He thought about it. ‘They say they never will.’
Sergeant Bedd’s face fell a little.
‘And  there was  no  blood,’ he  acknowledged. And  added
reluctantly: ‘And no dogs.’
‘And no eunuchs,’ said Charlesworth.
‘Thank you,’ said Brian Bryan, in a very deep voice.
The exhibition crowds were thinning. It had been a wonderful
day:  but  now  the  weary women, burdened with  purchases they
would bitterly regret when they got home, fought for buses in the
light summer rain, with cross husbands, slung about with Ohsofine
nutmeg graters and Ohsosharp lemon peelers and
Ohsotroublesaving gadgets of every description, lumbering irritably
after  them. The  young ladies in  the  galleries argued with  the
exhibitors about their  commission, the  demonstrators on  the
exhibition stands surreptitiously started to tidy away so as to get off
sharp when the clock of flowers said ten o’clock: its margin of error
was ten minutes either way and morning and evening they took the
benefit of the doubt. On the stage the concealing screens had been
removed. ‘You’d better all go home,’ said Charlesworth to his hungry


and weary little group. ‘Thank you for being so patient. You’ve really
all  been  model suspects!’ He  gave them a  brief, harrassed,
apologetic smile. ‘I’ll want to see you all again, no doubt: dozens of
times. But  I’ve  got  your  addresses; we  can’t  force  you  to  remain
there, but—please let us know if you make any change.’ He added
apparently guilelessly that  obviously it  would look  exceedingly
peculiar,  to  say  the  least  of  it,  if  anyone failed in  this  duty.  To
Perpetua, he said: ‘I expect Inspector Cockrill will see you safely
home.’ They drifted off and he was left in the big, dim hall, on the
lonely stage. A ‘sealed room’. A single entrance, bolted on the one
side, bolted and guarded on the other. Two short lengths of rope: a
silly little verse: a diamond brooch. A man missing who could not be
the  murderer since he  had  been  sitting on  his  horse when the
murder was done: and a frightened girl locked up, but unharmed, in
a room. And finally, eleven men in impenetrable disguise in full view
of thousands of people: and a woman ten feet above their heads,
strangled by two hands and thrown down out of the cardboard tower.
He  wandered through the  arch  and  into  the  Assembly room.
Twelve suits of zipped-up armour, hanging on twelve hooks; twelve
coloured cloaks drooping from the pegs above them, aglow with their
velvet sheen; twelve tin  helmets with  closed visors hooked up
carelessly on  the  pegs  above  the  cloaks. White, red,  sky  blue...
Yellow,  purple,  orange, a  deeper blue,  a  bottle green... A  bottle
green. He went and stood before the spare suit of armour, dangling
on its hook with the bottle green cloak and the grinning tin helmet
above: and poked it in the tin tummy with an irreverent finger. ‘You
blessed old sardine tin!—if only you could talk!’ he said. Eyeless,
toothless—the helmet grinned back at him.


Chapter VII
IF  THE  KENT POLICE benefited in any way by the conference held in
London that  year,  it  was  not  by  the  devoted attention of  their
representative, Detective Inspector Cockrill. Cockie sat  absently
doodling: doodling pin-men on pin-horses, filling them out with tiny
suits of armour, flying standards, flowing cloaks... Doodling a lay-out
of  the  stage and  Assembly room at  Elysian Hall... Doodling a
somewhat lop-sided face, adding a bush of thick, springy fair hair,
clipped to  a  page-boy bob...  I  wonder she  doesn’t trim  it  into  a
peacock, he thought. Or a tree in a tub. He rounded out the page
boy bob into a tub, and added a little tree sticking out of the top. It
wouldn’t be any odder than what most of the girls did with their hair
these days...
And  there  he  was,  back  to  Perpetua again. He  mumbled an
excuse to his colleagues and got up and went out. Perpetua, after a
bad night was at last asleep, but woken by his ring, answered the
telephone at once. ‘How are you, Peppi?’
‘All right, Cockie, thank you,’ said Perpetua.
‘But scared?’
‘Well—a bit. I mean, Isabel’s dead, isn’t she? And perhaps Earl
is too. So there’s only me left. You can’t help sitting and wondering a
bit where the tiger will spring from.’ She gave a nervous little laugh.
‘Haven’t you got any boy-friends that would look after you?’
‘Well—no,’ said Peppi. She explained apologetically: ‘I always
used to go round with Earl, you see. And when he was away I—-just
wasn’t interested. I wasn’t interested anyway: but when he was here
he used to take me about. Otherwise I just used to stay at home.’


‘Well, stay at home now,’ said Cockie. ‘I’ll have to deal with it.’
He  rang  off  abruptly and  marched out  of  the  telephone booth,
clapping his hat at its usual wild angle on his fine head. Might as well
set up as a wet-nurse and be done with it, he said irritably to himself.
What on earth was there in this gentle, pretty, maddeningly vague
young creature that impelled his pity and care? Thinking deeply he
stumped off, his shabby old mac hooked over his arm in the London
sunshine; and changed his direction, and then changed it again; and
changed yet again, and made for Kensington.
Brian Two-Times lived in a ‘service-room’: a small bright attic
with ‘use of bath’, and breakfast brought up on a nice clean tray by a
weary young woman who, however, thought him ever so lovely and
would have climbed more than the four flights any day, to see him in
his beautiful flowered silk dressing-gown, with his hair standing up in
ducks’ tails  all  over  his  head.  Cockie was  not  susceptible to  the
ducks’ tails and thought a dressing-gown at 11 a.m. little short of a
sin. He sat down in the Utility armchair, took out papers and tobacco
and wondered where on earth he ought to begin.
‘I’ve just been talking to Miss Kirk,’ he said at last.
Brian Two-Times shrugged off Miss Kirk. ‘This yong lady—a fine
nonsense she is making! How can I have pushed her in thiss room?
It’s idiotic.’
‘I should very much like to be sure of that,’ said Cockie.
Brian got up impatiently from his chair. Hands thrust into the
pockets of his dressing gown, he shifted like a caged animal about
the tiny room. ‘I was sitting on my horse in the Assembly room during
the whole time that this nonsense was supposed to be taking place.


How  can  I  sit  on  a  horse and  at  the  same time  tie  some young
woman up in a bundle, half a dozen rooms away?’
‘Somebody sat  on  a  horse and  at  the  same time strangled
another young  woman a  considerable distance away!’  Cockie
reminded him, wryly.
‘Well,  neither of  these miracle-workers woss  me,’  said  Brian
impatiently. ‘Why should I want to kill Issabel Drew? Why should I
want to injure Perpetua Kirk? I never met either of them till a few
weeks ago.’
‘But you knew Johnny Wise: and both of these women were—
concerned in his death.’
Brian clutched wildly at  his  bright hair.  ‘For  heaven’s  sake!
Johnny Wise! I  knew  this  boy,  yes:  but  that  is  all.  Just  to  meet
sometimes when I went over to the F.M.S. from Sumatra—to run
around to parties with, and so on: nothing more. He wass a nice boy:
everybody loved him—there was about him something fresh and—
one can only say—good. He was one of those “golden boys”. I, with
all the rest, loved him: but only as an acquaintance, only as a casual
friend. When he  came to  England, he  wrote back  much of  his
Perpetua, and also of Issabel Drew who introduced them together.
When I came here to England, I looked up this Issabel. I wanted to
know more of how Johnny died.’ His blue eyes grew hard and angry.
‘It is true, it seems, that between them these women killed the boy:
Issabel Drew and Perpetua Kirk.’
Poor, vague, sweet Peppi, who on that night had died also—
only that her body continued to live on. ‘She was very young,’ said
Cockie. ‘Almost a  child. They  got  her  half-drunk between them,
Isabel Drew and Anderson... I don’t suppose she knew what she


was doing: she said afterwards that the whole evening was a sort of
blur, until the came-to suddenly to find herself in Earl Anderson’s
arms, and the boy standing there at the door. But Anderson had
taken a fancy to her, I suppose, and Isabel was on his side. So she
let  the  boy  go  in.  I  remember  Peppi Kirk  in  those days  of  her
engagement. She was quite a gay little grig—not the great Mind of
the age, you know, not Greta Garbo, but a good little, pretty little,
happy-hearted creature, and very much in love with Johnny Wise.
You wouldn’t think it now, would you? She’s been like a—like a dead
leaf, ever since that night. She’s walked through her life in a sort of
stupor of remorse and grief. And now she’s awake again—and what
has she woken up to? She has no friends, no inner resources, no
defences—and a very real threat of murder hangs over her day and
night.’ He  looked up  suddenly,  his  brown hand  curled over  his
cigarette. ‘That’s why I want you to be a friend to her—to look after
her.’
Brian was moving about no longer. He stood more quietly than
Cockrill had ever seen him, his golden head outlined cameo-clear
against the dingy wall. He said: ‘Then you do not think that I am a
murderer?’
‘I  don’t  see  how  you  can  be,’  said  Cockie, dourly.  ‘Which is
much more important to us both than what I think.’
Brian Two-Times gave him his flashing smile. ‘Well—it is true
that I am not. And this girl, she will be safe with me. I look after her!’
Apparently unable to waste one second longer before passing on to
execution of  this  duty,  he  fished a  suit  out  of  the  little  wardrobe,
rummaged through a drawer for a clean shirt, and with automatic
neatness and  despatch began  to  dress. As  his  head  emerged


through the  neck  of  the  shirt,  he  added: ‘But you  now  have  to
convince her that I do not push her into any room!’
‘As you say, you were sitting on your horse,’ said Cockie.
‘This she knows. But still she does not believe sense. How does
she think I attacked her, when I am sitting on my horse?’
‘Perhaps she  thinks you  were not  sitting on  your  horse?’
suggested Cockie comfortably.
The shirt sleeves waved wildly as Brian thrust through his arms.
‘Everybody can tell you that I am sitting on the horse.’
‘Everybody has,’ said Cockie.
‘But you do not believe?’
‘The question is—will Perpetua believe?’
‘But what can she possibly think?’ cried Brian, doing up his shirt
with such exasperated haste that there seemed imminent danger of
a stage of buttonlessness.
Cockie considered. ‘Well, as to what she may think. She may
think, for instance, that you were not on the horse all the time. The
knights were on and off the horses, they were sitting in their saddles,
they  were  standing at  their  heads, they  were mounting and
dismounting. Perpetua may think that you rode in and took up your
position: and then quietly dismounted, came back and did your work
with  her,  and  went  in  and  remounted again. The  horses  are  well
trained: yours would have stood still.’
Brian could not help laughing. ‘That is very simple, certainly. But
the point is that I never got down from my horse. Part of my job woss
to take up this position and to remain there. The knights all took their
lead from me. Each knight followed the coloured cloak in front of
him: but all followed the white cloak.’


‘Perpetua might think,’ said Cockie twiddling his cigarette, ‘that
that’s what they did: followed the cloak!’
Brian was enchanted. His blue eyes danced. ‘You suggest that it
woss not me upon the horse!’
‘I suggest that it was not anybody upon the horse.’
Brian’s face changed. ‘I don’t know what you mean.’
‘I’m  only  just  saying what Perpetua might think,’  Cockie
reminded him. He was intent upon the cigarette. ‘I was saying that
she might think about that spare suit of armour: that you could have
hoisted it up on to the horse, out in the stable: and given the horse a
whack—it was  a  circus-trained creature, and  it  would go  forward
quite meekly, wouldn’t it?—and take its place before the arch. You’d
done it many times. You’d been training it for weeks.’
‘You mean that I sent an empty suit of armour in with this horse!
But...’ He spluttered, words for once failed him. He groped wildly in
the air for anything with which to refute such an idea. ‘But—ah! Miss
Betchley! I talked with her: she knows I woss on the horse.’
‘So  she  does,’ said  Cockie, beaming. He  quoted: ‘A  word
spoken in season: how good it is!’
Brian fanned himself in  a  parody of  panic relieved. ‘You
frightened me. I have seen something of the working of your police: if
they get hold of thiss idyotic idea...’
‘But of course,’ said Cockrill thoughtfully, ‘Miss Betchley spoke
to you before the episode with Perpetua. Nothing really to prevent
your  getting down off  the  horse afterwards, in  all  that  muddle:
hoisting up the spare armour, slipping out and back again...’
But you couldn’t catch Brian a second time. ‘Now you are being
fonny! Even this ridiculous armour—it will not sit comfortably on a


horse which jiggles about... It will not hold up the standard...’
‘The  standards are  rigid  in  the  saddle: it  would be  more  a
question of the standard holding up the armour!’
‘But  how  then  do  I  beg  my  armour nicely to  hold  on  to  the
standard! “And please to take the reins in your left hand. I am back in
one minute”.’ He laughed again. ‘This you do not believe.’
‘One just longs to fit in that spare armour somehow,’ admitted
Cockie, laughing too.
‘And afterwards—if I have assaulted this Peppi, then I am the
murderer, is’t not? Do I then assist my empty armour to dismount
and give it my parting instructions to go up to the tower and murder
Miss Drew?’ He stood before the dressing table, bending his knees
to  bring  his  eyes  level  with  the  inadequate mirror: the  gold  hair
crisped up beneath the bristles of the brush, forcing its way back into
its little waves. Cockrill thought that if he went at his head any harder
with those brushes he would do himself an injury. ‘Have a heart, boy!
You’ll knock your brains down your neck!’
‘In England it is not good to have silly curls,’ said Brian, slogging
away without respite. ‘Your Perpetua will not like it, she will refuse to
have  me  for  her  protector,  and  now  I  have  a  good  fancy  to  be
protector to Perpetua.’ He put down the brushes abruptly and came
over and stood in front of the Inspector, pulling down his waistcoat,
settling his shoulders into his jacket, straightening his tie. ‘Now I am
ready. But before we go, I like to tell you something. We have a good
joke  about  the  spare armour,  yes:  but,  Inspector—I am  not  a
murderer. I give you my word of honour that your little Perpetua is
safe with me.’


These foreigners with their speeches! All the same, Cockie took
the outstretched hand in his own. ‘I know that my boy,’ he said. At
least now he would be free to attend to that blasted conference!
Mr.  Port  in  the  early  weeks of  rehearsals had  recommended his
‘residential hotel’ to Miss Betchley: it was not what one was used to,
but nowadays you took what you could get. One of the things you
could not get in the hotel was breakfast in bed: they met in the dining
room at nine o’clock on the morning after the murder and, warm in
the intimacy of experience shared, joined up together at one of the
horrid little tables. Both had had bad nights, and both looked tired
and  grey,  but  anxiety gave  an  almost youthful look  to  Susan
Betchley’s handsome face, while it brought out the sagging wrinkles
in Mr. Port’s. He seemed eager to talk of what had happened. ‘Little
do all these peaceful people, browsing away at their breakfast like a
lot of cows, realize that the papers they’re reading are all about us...’
‘It’s terrible for you, Mr. Port. Bad enough for the rest of us, but
after all—well, I mean, Isabel Drew was a friend of yours, I know...’
He poured out more coffee for himself, from his little metal pot.
‘Yes, it’s been a shock. A terrible shock. I’ve been lying awake all
night, thinking about it—thinking about it... But... I suppose there’s
such a thing as being deliberately infatuated, Miss Betchley: do you
think there is? I was—I sort of played at being infatuated with Isabel
Drew.  Those  days—under the  Japanese: I  don’t  need  to  tell  you
anything about them, my dear, you know it all as well and as bitterly
as I do; and you must know how, amidst much worse things—the
fear and the anxiety and the physical hardships—one hungered for—
well,  for  a  little  ordinary luxury,  for  fun,  for  cosiness, for—for
tenderness and relaxation...’ To Edgar Port, Isabel had meant fun


and cosiness: had meant—God help him, poor old boy!—tenderness
and relaxation. Isabel, reflected Susan Betchley, had had about as
much tenderness as  a  wolf:  but  after  the  terrible years,  after  the
further anxieties of a wife broken down by the strain and mentally
sick, the ruin of home and property, the loss of friends, all gradually
emerging in the ensuing months, it was not wonderful if he had lost
himself temporarily in those honey-coloured charms. ‘But now that
she’s gone I can’t feel it as a personal loss, somehow; I’m shocked,
I’m horrified, but—I suppose I just didn’t really love her, that’s all. I—I
wanted to have my head full of a pretty woman, I wanted to think of
nothing but chocolates and flowers and whether Isabel would keep
her promise to have dinner with me on such and such an evening—I
wanted to think that I was in love...’ He looked at her from under his
baggy eyelids and said, simply: ‘One has a good deal to forget.’
‘Yes,’ said Miss Betchley. (So one laid one’s naked heart at two
dancing feet: one let oneself drown in the seas of a pair of blue
eyes...)
‘But now that she’s gone, nothing seems very terrible to me but
the way she died. And other things are—important.’ He moved back
in his chair so that the waitress could place before him his wrinkled
grey  sausage and  a  writhe of  lean  bacon. ‘My  wife  is  still  in  the
nursing home, you know. But—she’s better, she’s due to come out
very soon and...’ His fork rattled against the china with the shaking
of his hand. He burst out: ‘What will she think if she finds that I’ve
been playing about all this time with this stupid, shoddy exhibition,
that I’ve been playing around with that vulgar, shoddy woman...? I
only took up the work at the exhibition to please Isabel: she wanted
to be the Queen of the pageant, she badgered me into applying for


the job, and I did it to please her, to be near her...’ He said again: ‘It
was ridiculous for a man in my position, but I wanted to be ridiculous,
I wanted to fool around and do impulsive things. I had a great deal of
pull—more than Isabel had any idea of—with the sponsors of the
exhibition: I had money in it myself. But how will my wife understand
that it was only to—well, that it was just the reaction...’ He broke off
pathetically and wiped his sweating brow. ‘It’s enough to send her
back to that place for ever. As I told Isabel...’ He broke off again,
more abruptly this  time. Susan Betchley said  slowly: ‘Yes—I
remember now. You were quarrelling with Miss Drew, weren’t you?’
He interrupted hastily. ‘Just about that silly rehearsal. It was all
nothing.’
‘It went on for a long time.’
‘Not so long as you think,’ he said quickly. ‘We—we really made
it up some days ago.’ He added firmly: ‘I have said that I was not
really in love with Isabel: but I was “infatuated” with her.’ He looked
at  her  beadily,  and  added with  deliberation: ‘You  can  understand
that.’
‘Why me, particularly?’ said Susan Betchley, suddenly deciding
against any more toast.
He smiled at her: kindly, but meaningly—warily. ‘Oh, my dear—
do you think I haven’t seen you looking at him? People in love are
very sensitive to other people’s love, you know. All these weeks of
rehearsals—I’ve watched it coming over you like a—a sort of golden
cloud. Every time he turns his blue eyes on you, every time he uses
one  of  his  funny little  expressions, every time  he  runs  his  hand
through his yellow hair... Do you think I don’t know that you’re sick
with  love  for  him?  That  you  can  hardly keep  your  mouth from


speaking his name, just to hear the sound of it: that you can hardly
force  your  hands from  touching his  sleeve or  the  place  that  his
sleeve has brushed against as he passed by...? My dear girl—I may
have been playing at love, but I played a very good game: I know it
all, down to the utmost guttering flicker of despair, up to the topmost
pinnacles of hope...’ He looked at her sitting there, with her swarthy
face and her upright shoulders and her square brown hands. ‘You’re
in love with Brian Bryan,’ he said. ‘Even though you know that he’s a
murderer.’
A fly buzzed across the scraping of marmalade in the cracked
white saucer; otherwise there was absolute silence at the little table.
She said at last, quietly: ‘You too? You’re a friend?’
‘I knew Johnny,’ he said.
‘Yes,’ she said. ‘She murdered Johnny: she and that creature
Earl Anderson. It’s nothing to do with my loving or not loving Brian.
They killed poor Johnny: and they deserved to die.’
‘You knew him very well?’ said Mr. Port.
‘Not so very well as all that: but I loved him—everybody loved
him: he was just one of those people. We were much the same age;
we used to play tennis and golf together a bit, and ride together—oh,
there was nothing like that in it, I was just fond of him and he looked
upon  me  almost as  though  I  were  one  of  his  brothers. He  was
devoted to his family; and he had a twin that he loved more than
anyone on earth. When he was away from them all, he used to like
to  be  with  me—he  was  a  person who  craved for  affection  and
companionship all the time...’ She stared out of the dingy window
into the dingy square. She said again: ‘Yes—I’d protect anyone who
killed Isabel Drew.’


‘We’ll shake hands on that,’ said Mr. Port.
Detective Inspector Charlesworth arrived to call for Mr. Port. Mr.
Port, like a man going off to execution stepped into the little car. ‘I do
hope, Inspector, that you’re not going to be—tactless—with my wife.’
‘I shan’t mention the case to her at all,’ said Charles-worth. ‘I
merely want her to confirm what you tell me of your background in
Malaya. You must see how difficult it all is for us, with all the records
missing: we simply aren’t able to check up on anything or anyone...
Yes, I know all about your bank account, but... Yes, O.K., I know all
about Miss Betchley confirming your identity... Now, look, Mr. Port...’
By  the  time  they  arrived at  Hampstead he  was  exasperated and
cross. ‘Any more fuss, Mr. Port, and I shall turn back and leave this
to  an  ordinary  plain  clothes man, which would be  the  usual
procedure: I came myself because I know your wife’s ill and I wanted
to save you trouble...”
The nursing home was a tall, thin-lipped house with an air of
prim starchiness: it looked, thought Charlesworth who was not often
given to pretty fancies, as though for two pins it would turn upon the
neighbouring houses and pop them willy-nilly into bed with unwanted
hot-water bottles at  their  feet.  The  Matron came to  them  in  the
waiting room, and,  having failed  in  her  duty,  was  naturally  highly
incensed with poor Mr. Port. ‘In spite of my strict orders, there has
been a mix-up and one of the daily papers, some sensational rag,
has  been  taken into  your  wife’s  room.’ She  stood over  him
menacingly. ‘A nice half hour we’ve had! Tears, fainting, hysterics—
and now our memory has gone right back to where it was! I can
assure you, Mr. Port, that this kind of thing causes a great deal of
trouble in a nursing home.’


Mr. Port stood staring back at her, almost unable to believe his
ears. ‘You let her see a paper!’
‘I cannot be personally responsible...’
‘I gave you implicit instructions...’
‘If gentlemen would refrain from getting themselves mixed up in
sordid affairs of this kind...’
Charlesworth left  them  to  it;  he  walked out  of  the  room  and
calmly went upstairs. To a nurse he said: ‘Mrs. Port’s expecting me,’
and since this was true, was ushered into a room where a woman
sat  in  a  chair by  the  window.  The  forced brightness of  the
atmosphere seemed to drain Mrs. Port of all the little life and colour
that were natural to her; but she smiled at him very sweetly. ‘Good
morning. Who are you?’
He gave her his own friendly smile. ‘My name’s Charlesworth.
Who are you?’
‘I’m Mrs. Port,’ she said. ‘Haven’t you come to see me? Such a
lot of strange doctors do.’
‘No,’ he said. ‘And I’m not a doctor. But as I’m here, perhaps
you’ll  let  me  stay  and  smoke a  cigarette?’ He  sat  down on  the
window-sill with his long legs crossed and smiled down at her. ‘What
a silly little room this is,’ he said. ‘Aren’t you longing to get well and
get out of it?’
She looked back at him doubtfully. ‘It’s safe in here.’
He was frightened. He was not dealing with a normal person
and he was afraid of saying anything that might react unfavourably
upon her; he wished with all his heart he had not come: had not
embarked, unpermitted, upon this  conversation. He  said:  ‘The


world’s pretty safe now: the bad times are over.’ He wished he was
quite so sure of it himself.
‘Do you think it would be all right to leave?’
‘Well, I think so,’ he said comfortably. ‘You’d like to be with your
friends again? It must be lonely here.’
‘I’ve forgotten my friends,’ she said simply. ‘I’ve forgotten such a
lot. Do you know that I just can’t remember anything from the time I
was a girl. I remember my wedding, and I remember something of
the—the voyage: my  husband  took  me  out  to—well, he  took  me
away from my home, you know; they say we went to Malaya, but I
remember nothing of that. I remember the voyage—not much, just
the bits that one would remember, from so long ago. And I remember
being on the ship again, coming home. They’ve kept me here all this
time trying to help me to remember in between.’
‘I  don’t  see  why  you  should bother to,’  said  Charlesworth,
putting into words the only thought that came into his head. ‘You may
have had a horrid time in between and so you’ve forgotten it. Why
trouble to remember? I should just be happy in the present and the
future, get as well as you can, and start all over again...’ (‘This is
something-or-other therapy,’ he said to himself. ‘I’m probably doing
marvels if I did but know.’ But once again he wished he was so sure.)
Mrs. Port looked at him gravely; he noticed with alarm that her
fingers had begun to pleat and repleat a fold in her dressing-jacket.
‘Have you seen the papers this morning?’ she said.
He topped a cigarette of its ash, knocking it carefully into the
tray on her little table. ‘Well, I have. A girl called Isabel Drew seems
to have been killed. I believe your husband knew her a little. So did I,
as a matter of fact.’


‘What did my husband know of this woman?’ He thought it was
an effort for her to ask it; there was a nervous dignity in her manner,
and  the  busy  fingers worked more  quickly,  not  ceasing in  their
unrewarding work.
‘Very little, I think,’ he said carelessly. ‘The papers make a lot of
that kind of thing: they go for what they think is “sensational” and
Isabel was that kind of person. She was always worrying people to
get her jobs and get jobs for her friends, and Mr. Port was kind to her
and  to  them  all.  I  understand  he  had  financial interests in  the
exhibition, and so he brought a little influence to bear: he even took a
hand in it himself, just to amuse himself while you were stuck away
here. He must be bored, not having many friends in England—and it
was a harmless enough way to amuse himself—wasn’t it?’
Her  fingers  slowed down. She  said:  ‘Well,  I  suppose it  was,
really.’
‘Then a thing like this happens, and the papers get hold of it
and, of course, they make a fuss,’ said Charlesworth, reasonably
explaining it all away. ‘It sounds ugly and sensational and horrid—but
that doesn’t mean that it was: after all, there was nothing on earth
wrong with his playing about with this silly little pageant. The girl gets
killed, and, of course, he’s dragged into it, and questioned, like the
rest: but that’s all there is to it.’ He was not so sure: to salve his own
conscience, he offered: ‘I have a few friends on various papers: if
you like I’ll do what I can to get them to tone this down a bit.’
Her hands were quite still: lying, pale and quiet, in her lap. She
said gratefully: ‘We’d be very thankful to you if you would,’ and he
noted with relief that she included the errant husband in her own
reaction. ‘It’s been kind of you to explain it all to me. I’d heard of the


pageant, of  course, and  I  believe I’ve  even  met  this  Miss  Drew,
though I  don’t  remember her.  Her—her pictures are  not  very—
reassuring.’
‘She was all right,’ said Charlesworth, easily. ‘She was kind and
friendly in many ways: she wasn’t too bad... There’s nothing in all
that to worry yourself about.’ He looked at her quiet face and quiet
hands and feeling highly pleased with himself, heaved himself up
from  the  window-sill and  said  good-bye. He  had  learned all  he
wanted: Mrs.  Port  could tell  him  nothing about the  Malayan
background, and that was that. He said: ‘I must trot off now. It was
nice of you to let me sit with you for a minute, and smoke a cigarette.
Get well soon, won’t you?’ He turned to the door.
And  suddenly the  matron was  standing there, with  Mr.  Port,
ashen and trembling, at her shoulder. ‘Detective Inspector! How did
you get in here? What are you doing here? We thought you’d gone
out to the car...’
‘Detective Inspector?’ cried Mrs. Port.
‘A  policeman! Mrs.  Port—what  has  this  man  been  saying to
you? What have you told him? Mrs. Port...! Mrs. PORT!’
The sound of her screaming, the sound of hysterical laughter,
followed him as he fled down the stairs and made his way out of the
house and into the square.
And while Perpetua declared to Inspector Cockrill that she had no
true knights to look after her, and Cockie stumped off, feeling like a
benevolent old pimp to rustle up boy-friends for her comforting, one
who  would have  given his  hob-nailed young soul  to  save  her  an
instant’s heartache, nursed his despair alone and unremembered.
Thank God, at least, that Mother was away in Scotland: he could not


have endured the  boring-in of  that  gimlet eye,  the  resolute
understanding of that too fond maternal heart. In the shop-window
little  house with  its  nightmare of  crippled white birchwood and
imitation okapi skin, he sat with his head in his hands and tried to
blot out from his memory the events of the previous night. And so
came back  to  the  scene he  had  witnessed, the  words he  had
overheard on his way home outside Isabel’s front door: to the plot
between Earl  and  Isabel that  would make Perpetua wife  of  a
bigamist: to the story of the blot that had long ago sent Perpetua’s
lover to his death: and so, by slow insidious degrees, back to the
hateful vision of his beloved held in Earl Anderson’s arms. Sick with
repulsion, he  thrust it  away  from  him:  but  adolescent imagination
dwelt on it, toyed with it, built it up, adorned it, could not let it be...
Sick with himself and his ugly visions, he dragged himself up, went
to the bookshelves and pulled down volume after volume: the ‘right’
kind  of  books, specially bound  for  his  mama in  the  right  kind  of
leather, elegantly tooled. Thackeray, Trollope, Dickens... Motherdear
flicked through the pages of Vanity Fair where the hobbledehoy hero
had got his girl in the end: of The Small House at Allington, where
the hobbledehoy had failed: of Little Dorrit where poor John Chivery
had wandered through the Marshalsea prison, composing a hundred
epitaphs for himself. What would George Exmouth’s epitaph be, if...
He sat down at Charity’s wrought-aluminium desk, and drew a sheet
of her notepaper towards him. ‘Here lies in unsanctified ground the
body of George Exmouth, aged only seventeen, who, to save the
honour of his lady...’ But it was dangerous to put this kind of thing on
paper. He altered ‘his lady’ to ‘a lady’ and then tore the paper into


tiny scraps and set fire to the bits with a match. You could not be
certain that the police would not search the house.
Perpetua, a little reassured by Cockie’s phone call, went to the door
of her room and put out her head. ‘Oh, Mrs. Solly—I’ve had a rotten
night and I think I’ll go to bed. Will you guard my door for me?’ The
cleaner said cheerfully that that was right, rest was the best thing if
you was tired, and, having been up all night with an ailing baby, not
to  mention  the  second one’s  cough and  pore  Alfred’s  nasty
indigestion, more like a lump of lead on his chest it was, herself
continued to dust and polish and scrub with unabated zeal. Perpetua
glanced at the mat outside her door: the paper and a single envelope
—but it was probably only a bill, and she left them both there and
returned sleepily to her bed.
Detective Inspector Charlesworth rang  up  at  noon. He  was
going to  Earl  Anderson’s  flat  and  it  might be  helpful if  Miss  Kirk
would accompany him:  she  would know better than  anyone if
anything out of the way was missing... Perpetua had spent less time
in Earl’s flat than a great many people supposed, but she agreed to
go. Charlesworth would call round in half an hour. No—sorry; no
news at all of Mr. Anderson.
She wrapped her silk kimono about her and went to the door.
The newspaper still lay on the mat and the bill; but with them now
was a little round bunch of flowers and a folded note. The note was
signed with a B. It said: ‘Perpetua, Inspector Cockrill now confirms
that I cannot have lured you into that room. When this was done I
was on my horse in the Assembly room and the spare armour as far
as I am concerned still hanging on the wall. Please believe this. And
why should I wish to harm you? Be no longer afraid. We all look after


you.’ Underneath Cockie  had  written in  his  well-known
indecipherable scrawl: ‘Dear Perpetua, you  may  trust  this  young
man.  He  is  O.K.’  She  put  her  head  out  of  the  door  again. ‘Who
brought the flowers?’
The  cleaner said  that  it  had  been  ever  such  a  lovely young
gentleman, foreign he  was  you  could tell  because he  wore  a
mackintosh on such a hot day, and a black hat like Mr. Eden, and he
had come rushing in and stood at her door and said: ‘She has not
then woken up? Her paper is still on the mat,’ and had thrust the
flowers into her hand and said, ‘Tell her I com back,’ and rushed off
again. ‘Would the gentleman be in a hurry, Miss?’
‘I don’t expect so, really,’ said Peppi, with a little inward smile at
the thought of Brian Two-Times dashing in and depositing flowers on
her doorstep as though they had been a bomb and he must hurry off
out of the way before it exploded. ‘He just—gives an appearance of
always being in a hurry.’ And of course it was true that he could not
have attacked her in that little room. For some obscure reason she
felt suddenly much more light-hearted. ‘Be no longer afraid. We all
look after you.’ It was very kind of Brian Two-Times.
Hugging her kimono about her, she put down the note and the
flowers and  ripped open  the  ‘bill’.  The  envelope bore  last  night’s
post-mark, and it was not a bill. It was a typewritten note and it said:
PERPETUA KIRK—YOU’RE NEXT.


Chapter VIII
CHARLESWORTH  ARRIVING AT  ELEVEN  o’clock was  sympathetic but
frankly excited. ‘We’ll get him by the typewriting: there can only be a
few machines that the people concerned can have had access to.’
He sent off the note to Scotland Yard, and himself proceeded with
Perpetua and  Sergeant Bedd,  to  Earl  Anderson’s  flat.  ‘Oh,  and
Inspector I’ve had a note from Inspector Cockrill, and he says that
Brian Bryan is quite out of suspicion now, and I can trust him.’
‘Does he, indeed?’ said Charlesworth, interested.
‘And Mr. Bryan left me some flowers: wasn’t it rather sweet of
him?’
‘Heavenly,’ said Charlesworth. He thought that this dim young
creature who last night had looked as colourless and unsubstantial
as a cobweb, had suddenly taken on a remarkable new lease of life.
A chauffeur was washing an ancient Rolls in the mews. ‘Good
morning, miss,’ he said to Perpetua, glancing up. She was looking
very  pretty this  morning: seemed to  do  her  good, having her
paramours doing the vanishing trick. Actors indeed! Earl Anderson
published his profession to all the world, considering, and no doubt
rightly, that it set him a little apart from his fellows, and confidently
believing that on account of it, the Mews accorded him its breathless
interest. The  Mews, since he  was  admittedly neither Stewart
Grainger nor  James Mason  and  had  never been  heard of  in  the
Radio Times, simply did not believe that he was an actor at all: but
since he frequently had females to see him in his flat, they accorded
him their interest anyway. The chauffeur was only too ready to repeat
such information as  he  could offer—already made glib  from


repetition to Charlesworth’s myrmidons. At just before eleven, Mr.
Anderson had walked down to the telephone booth at the corner and
after a while had come back and taken the car and gone out again.
They had been woken by the return of the car some time after one.
The chauffeur did think that later on he had heard footsteps going off
out of the mews: but he had been more than half asleep, and it could
have been a dream. This final admission had been wrung from him
by Sergeant Bedd on an earlier visit, and he repeated it reluctantly
with that gentleman’s eye upon him; but he privately believed that
there was no question of any dream. He shoved his cap further back
on to his head and phewed at the heat: standing here in the hot sun
talking to  the  police, his  gesture implied, was  thirsty work.
Charlesworth left  him  to  supply the  need  for  himself, and  with
Perpetua went into Earl’s garage, past the little red car, and up into
the flat. As he went he said to Peppi: ‘When did you last see him, or
hear from him?’
Perpetua in her pretty flowered frock, toiled up the narrow stairs
at his heels. ‘On the afternoon of the day before the pageant. He
used to ring me up most evenings if I didn’t see him, but his ’phone
was cut off. Isabel rang me that evening about ten, and she said that
she was going to ring him, but of course his line was n.b.g., because
he hadn’t paid the rent: so she said she would ring Sugar-Daddy—
Mr. Port, I mean—instead. I don’t know if she did.’
Charlesworth jerked his head towards Sergeant Bedd. ‘Check
with  Port’s  hotel.’ He  waved a  hand  round the  shoddy little  flat.
‘Anything missing?’
The police had searched the whole place pretty thoroughly, but
it was now restored to order. Perpetua glanced at the hall-stand,


glanced into the bedroom and the bathroom. ‘Yes, his hat’s gone:
and his raincoat. It was drizzling a bit last night, wasn’t it? And his
dressing gown and slippers used to hang here: and there don’t seem
to  be  any  pyjamas  on  his  pillow.  And  his  shaving things and  his
toothbrush and flannel and stuff...’ She broke off and stood staring.
‘But why on earth has he taken the bathroom curtains?’
‘The curtains?’
‘Yes, clear oilskin ones with seagulls on them with red beaks:
only Earl said they looked like Spitfires and hung them upside down.
But why on earth should he have taken them now? And where can
he have gone?’ She looked at Charlesworth rather desperately; but
more puzzled he thought than alarmed; or, if alarmed, more for the
sake of her friend himself than for anything that he might have meant
to her.
He shrugged. ‘Of course it all may be nothing. He may have had
an urgent call—apparently he did go out to the ’phone; he may have
rushed off  to  visit  his  sick  Mum  or  something, and  has  no  idea
there’s all this hue and cry: being as his Mum’s in the depths of the
country,  snowed up  probably,  or  cut  off  by  the  floods, and  they
haven’t seen a newspaper this three weeks come Michaelmas...’
‘He hasn’t got a Mum,’ said Perpetua. ‘She’s dead. It’s much
more likely to be a girl friend: he was always whizzing off without a
moment’s notice, Casanovering. Yes, that’s it! I bet you anything,
Inspector,  he’s  just  chucked up  everything and  gone  off  to  some
love-nest.’
‘But why on earth should ’e take the bathroom curtains to a love-
nest?’ said Bedd. He had heard some rummy things, but this beat
all.


‘May be  he  had  a  fetish about seagulls,’ suggested
Charlesworth.
Sergeant Bedd who had always vaguely understood that a fetish
was them little round hats worn by the blacks in Africa, looked more
mystified than ever.
Down at  Elysian Hall,  Mr.  Port,  Susan Betchley and  Motherdear
hung miserably about the stage. ‘Well, well, I always heard that the
murderer returns  to  the  scene of  the  crime,’ said  Charlesworth
cheerfully, arriving there after a scrappy lunch at the pub opposite.
‘None of you people seem able to keep away. I shall begin to think
that this was a mass slaying: a slaying by a mass, I mean, not a
mass of people getting slain.’ Inspector Cockrill, standing between
Peppi and a much-subdued Brian Two-Times, observed to himself
with sardonic satisfaction that his colleague was covering up, with a
lot of rather frantic badinage, the fact that he did not know what on
earth to do next. With any luck, Detective Inspector Charlesworth
was going to ‘make a muck’ of the Jezebel case! Until, of course, he,
Cockie, the despised, the rejected, stepped in to put things straight
for him...
‘I  called  at  your  house,’ said  Brian, to  Perpetua. ‘I  thought
perhaps ass I am not a villain you might have had lonch with me.’
‘I had lunch with Inspector Cockrill, Brian, and he brought me on
down here. But I got the flowers and they were simply heaven. And
I’m  sorry  I  was  so  stupid about—sort of  suspecting you.  It  was
because of the white cloak and the voice and things...’
‘I look after you now, Peppi,’ said Brian comfortably.
Charlesworth took Mr. Port to one side. ‘I’m most frightfully sorry
about your wife, Mr. Port. That blasted woman...’


‘The  damage is  done, Inspector,’  said  Mr.  Port,  quietly and
bitterly. ‘She had to be put back to bed. God knows how long it will
take now.’
‘I swear to you that she was perfectly O.K. with me. I didn’t ask
her anything, I didn’t tell her anything, we just had a friendly talk...’
‘A friendly talk about my affairs in Malaya and about Isabel Drew
and  the  exhibition: what  I’ve  worked and  striven and  prayed and
payed to keep away from her all this time...’ He broke off, and went if
possible whiter than he already was. ‘I mean—payed out these big
sums to that nursing home to keep her there, away from the world...
It’s been an anxiety: her mind is so delicately balanced...’ He added
with bitter satisfaction: ‘Anyway, it may interest you to know that your
visit to my wife to-day has just about sunk any hope you ever had of
discovering anything about this crime.’
Charlesworth let  it  go  at  that:  no  use  making the  little  man
angrier and more savage by ill-timed questions. He turned his entire
attention back  to  the  scene before him.  Such fingerprints and
footmarks as  had  been  found had  confirmed the  stories of  the
suspects, as  far  as  those  went: Miss  Betchley had  certainly
hammered and rattled at the Assembly room door, Brian Bryan had
certainly admitted her from the inside: it was humanly impossible to
have manipulated the inner bolt from outside the door. Earl Anderson
in his blundering exit would have had on the chain mail gloves, (of
knitted silver tape)  which all  the  knights wore  with  their  armour,
giving a highly romantic effect and one devastating to the tracing of
fingerprints: but there was a mark of Mr. Port’s pudgy palm as he
had pushed the door open from outside and come hurrying through
after Isabel’s fall. There were no significant prints in the dressing


room  where  Perpetua had  been  locked up:  but  there  again, her
assailant would have worn the  silver gloves. Charlesworth
addressed the little group. ‘I expect you’d all like to know whether
there’s any news of Earl Anderson. Well, there isn’t. He left his flat
night before last—the evening before the evening of the murder, that
is,  of  course, and,  except for  his  having been  seen  here  in  the
pageant, he hasn’t been heard of again. He seems to have taken a
suitcase of things with him—or somebody has taken it to give us the
impression of flight. The question more or less boils down to this:
has  Anderson been done away with  himself-—or is  he  the
murderer?’
To this question, nobody appeared ready with a reply. Perpetua
said: ‘But what motive could Earl have had to be a murderer? He
had nothing on earth against Isabel Drew.’
Motherdear stood unhappily wrangling with his own conscience:
to speak or not to speak? Above the muted din of the exhibition, the
voice of his love rose cool and clear: ‘Earl wouldn’t have killed poor
Isabel. Earl wasn’t brutal like that, he wasn’t cold and calculating and
cruel...’ And in the big empty room, the twelve suits of armour hung,
watching them—watching him, poor muddled, unhappy, desperate
George Exmouth, with their blind and steady gaze. He blurted out
the ugly truth. ‘Earl Anderson was calculating and cruel: he was—
going to  ask  you  to  marry him,  Perpetua. And  he  was  married
already.’
Perpetua’s face flushed. ‘It isn’t true.’
‘It’s true all right,’ he said. ‘I heard them planning it: him and
Isabel Drew.’ That was the man who had held Perpetua in his arms!
Would she defend him after that? But his heart was sick and heavy


at the look of horror he had brought to her face. He said wretchedly:
‘But you needn’t be unhappy any more, Perpetua. They’re both dead
now.’
‘Why do you say that?’ said Charlesworth, quickly. ‘How do you
know that Anderson’s dead? If anything, this gives him a motive to
kill—not to get himself killed!’
‘Wishful thinking,’ suggested Cockie, eyeing the boy’s face with
uneasiness.
George Exmouth looked terrified. ‘I—I just thought...’
But Charlesworth had lost interest in Motherdear: who, after all,
had simply sat his horse from beginning to end of the whole affair,
apparently unobserving, observed of none. He concentrated on the
missing Anderson, now so handily supplied with Motive. ‘He packed
a suitcase and spent the night before the murder somewhere other
than his home: why I don’t quite see, but possibly to build up a new
metier for himself not too closely associated with the actual evening
of the crime. He got down here very late, changed into his armour,
probably in  one  of  the  dressing rooms or  out  in  the  stalls,  since
nobody saw him actually putting it on, and then hung about in the
corridor waiting for Miss Kirk. He pushed her into the little room, tied
her up in the cloak and locked her in.’
‘Do you mean to say that was Earl—imitating Brian?’
‘Off  course this  fellow woss an  actor,’  suggested Brian,
shrugging.
‘And why lock me up, anyway?’
Charlesworth had no idea. ‘Some vague notion of keeping you
out of the way while he got up to his tricks: it was your job to sort of
keep an eye on the knights, wasn’t it?’


‘Mine and Miss Betchley’s.’
‘But he knew Miss Betchley would be busy on the door.’
Mr. Port started to say something, but held his peace. ‘So he
went on into the Assembly room,’ continued Charlesworth. ‘Left his
horse standing—it was a circus trained beast, it would have stood
still—and slipped through the crowd and into the tower and... Well,
went into the tower.’
‘But wouldn’t Isabel have seen him coming?’ said Peppi.
‘What if she did? It was only old Earl, the childhood pal. And
anyway, he may have been hidden up on the platform: it would be
pretty dark, and she wasn’t supposed to turn on the light because of
its being seen through the window. She seems always to have gone
up the ladder just by the light coming through the window itself and
the door. And then...’
‘And then,’ said Inspector Cockrill sweetly, ‘he strangled her and
threw her down, in such a way that twelve minutes later when he had
been cavorting about on a horse for some time, beneath the gaze of
all, she should have the appearance of having only that moment
been strangled and thrown down. A talented fellow.’
Collusion then. But with whom? Everybody else had been on
the stage: except of course for Susan Betchley and Mr. Port—oh,
and  Perpetua.  Why  or  how  any  of  them  should have  wanted to
collude with Earl Anderson in the murder of Isabel, it was not easy to
suggest: but supposing they had? Miss Betchley undertook to say
that neither Mr. Port nor Perpetua had remained in the Assembly
room. Supposing for the sake of argument they had either of them
dressed up  in  the  spare uniform, and  gone in  so  disguised,
unbeknown to her? But how then had they gone out again? There


had been no one, in armour or otherwise, in the tower or Assembly
room when she had burst in after Isabel’s fall: the spare armour had
dangled on its hook half-way down one wall, its helmet hanging on
the peg above the hook. Supposing that, Anderson having murdered
the  girl  and  gone  back  to  his  horse, Miss  Betchley had  crept  in,
waited for the psychological moment and thrown the body down. But
no: for Isabel would have been dead then long before she hit the
ground, and  the  postmortem  tale  of  bruises made within a  few
seconds of death was too definite for that. And anyway, Brian Bryan
had found the door bolted from the inside, so that Miss Betchley
could not have gone through. And anyway, why wait and throw her
down?
And anyway, why the two nooses?
‘Too much standing about here,’ suggested Brian Two-Times to
Perpetua, weary with  the  self-communings of  the  stupid British
police. ‘Better I take you to the Exhibitors’ Club for some tea.’
The Exhibitors’ Club was a large, square room furnished with
basket-work chairs in which it was impossible to do anything but lie
down or sit bolt upright, and round glass-topped tables with—on the
second day  of  the  exhibition—a good  deal  of  pale  brown fluid
already staining to leprous patches the violently pink paper between
the  wooden table and  its  covering glass. The  Club  owed its
membership almost entirely to the fact that its sanitary arrangements
were slightly more civilized than those of the rest of the exhibition. By
three o’clock there was no cake left, tea-cake was also ‘off’, buttered
toast had never been on. ‘Come home and I’ll make you a cup of tea
in my room,’ said Perpetua, to prevent Brian Two-Times from rising
up and laying about him in his impotent rage at all this apparently


studied frustration. ‘I’m afraid the tea-cake is off there too, but at
least I won’t solemnly write down an order for it when I know all the
time that it’s crossed off the menu with nasty indelible pencil.’
‘Is this correct, that I shall go in England to a yong lady’s flat?’
‘It’s even worse than a yong lady’s flat, it’s a bed-sitting-room,’
said Peppi, laughing. ‘But this is London, and 1947, and Cockie says
I can trust you—I’ve got it in writing!’ She tucked her hand into his
arm. ‘Or are you afraid?’
‘It is you who are no longer afraid, Perpetua, I am glad to see,’
said Brian Bryan: and his blue eyes shone.
Inspector Cockrill remained on the stage with Charlesworth. ‘In
this  matter of  Anderson’s  being the  murderer—aren’t you
overlooking that poem? And the diamond brooch?’
‘They aren’t necessarily concerned with the murder at all.’
Cockie raised his  eyebrows. ‘I  should have thought that
everything that happened within an hour or so of the murder might at
least have commanded your interest.’
‘We don’t know that anything happened within an hour of the
murder. Isabel Drew may have had that brooch for years: she may
have carried the poem around with her for years.’
‘Next to her heart?’ said Cockie.
‘Well, she may. Girls do these things.’
‘Not Jezebel,’ said Cockie.
‘Well, all right, let’s say that Anderson gave her the brooch then,
within an hour of the murder: as you put it...
‘I don’t suggest that Anderson gave it to her: I suggest that she
received it. If it was to be handed to her, why the poem? Why the
mystery? Say she received the poem: and the brooch.’


Charlesworth shrugged. ‘Well, O.K. Then what? She puts the
poem down her front, pins the brooch into her dress, and gets on
with the job in hand. Up the tower, glances out of the window and
registers gratitude in the general direction of the Knight upon her
left...’
‘By  doing what?’ said  Cockrill:  gently leading the  child  along
through his class by the hand.
‘Well, sort of leaning over a bit...’
‘Wouldn’t the audience have seen that?’
‘No, because the balcony was in darkness. But the Knight was
just beneath it, looking up.’
‘And then?’
‘And  then  his  arms  suddenly grew  about ten  feet  and  he
reached up and pulled her down and laid her on the ground at his
feet and strangled her,’ said Charlesworth, hopelessly.
‘Exactly,’ said Cockie.
Charlesworth stood staring at  him.  And  suddenly was
galvanized into action. ‘Everybody off the stage, please. Screens up,
Bedd, please. Some rope—I want some rope: here, those bits of
thick string there will do.’ He disappeared with it, and reappeared
shortly afterwards at the window of the tower, reaching out, feeling
among the green metal ivy-leaves. ‘Yes: there are hundreds of nails
here.’ He called down to Cockie: ‘Why the second noose?’
‘I  suggested last  night  that  it  was  all  very  confusing,’  said
Cockie.
“Deliberate, you mean? Second one to put us off the scent of
the  first.  Where would you  hide  a  leaf, in  the  forest,’ gabbled
Charlesworth gaily. He tied the string into a slip noose and hitched it


lightly over three nails so that it hung down, half framing the narrow
window. The second length of string, tied to the first to make a total
of somewhere around ten feet, hung down one side of the arch, to
the left of the window as he faced out. He disappeared and came
back on to the stage.
Bedd stood staring at the two shining faces. ‘You mean to say
that he lured her to look out: and then put up his hand, like, to the
switch. And the noose come off the nails: and closed round her neck
—and he give a tug, and brought her down? But, ’ere!’ His brow was
furrowed, he  shook his  grizzled head. ‘You’re  going too  fast,  Mr.
Charlesworth, sir,  begging your  pardon. The  doctor said  she  was
strangled from behind with two hands, not a minute from when she
hit the floor: and that’s flat.’
‘You’ll be flat, you old image, if you don’t hold your tongue.’ He
stood up on the horse’s block and reached up and gave the string a
jerk. It came away easily from its nails and lay coiled in a heap on
the ground. ‘You lie down here with it, Bedd, and don’t talk so much:
you’ve just fallen fifteen feet.’ He said to Cockrill: ‘That’s what you
meant—isn’t it?’
‘It  was  what the  poem and  the  brooch suggested,’
acknowledged Cockie. He  ran  over  the  poem once  again. “‘Oh,
Isabel, how beautiful thy face is! It brings out homage in unexpected
places. And  so  the  donor of  this  little  gift,  is  who?—the Mystery
Knight upon the left!” Of course, as I said, there are two or three
other ways.’
Charlesworth could not be bothered with the two or three other
ways. ‘Now: I’m the Red Knight on his horse, sitting up here like a
stuck pig, having pulled the girl down. The White Knight’s in a bit of


trouble, but I’d taken all that into my calculations: they say a horse
never steps on a body, and this one didn’t either. He bolted forward,
and  that  was  the  White Knight out  of  the  way.  I  waited  another
second or two: and then I got down off my horse and came over and
knelt down by poor, dear Isabel. My cloak flowed out about me and
hid my hands...’
‘Hoy, sir,’ said Sergeant Bedd in a gurgling voice; ‘you’re straglig
be!’
‘Right bang there in front of the audience,’ said Charlesworth, in a
tone of awe. He stood up and, fresh from the business of strangling
Sergeant Bedd, dusted his hands together fastidiously.
‘And ME in the front row,’ said Inspector Cockrill. Awe was not
the word for it.
‘Unhooked the ropes, tucked them out of sight under her skirt
and blundered, stupefied with sorrow, out through the arch!’
Sergeant Bedd staggered to  his  feet,  holding his  throat.
Charlesworth finished dusting his  hands; Inspector Cockrill drew
deeply on a shabby cigarette. ‘Well—now all that’s left is to discover
what’s  happened to  Anderson,’ said  Charlesworth, girt  for  further
action.
‘And to make an arrest, sir?’ said Sergeant Bedd, hopefully.
‘And to make an arrest: I should think so, Inspector, wouldn’t
you?’
Cockie considered. ‘As you say, we must first find out what’s
happened to Anderson.’
‘Did anyone speak to him except Perpetua Kirk, last night?’
‘Not that Perpetua Kirk did speak to him,’ said Cockie.
‘Good lord, yes, she did.’


‘The  evidence is  that  she  told  Miss  Betchley he  was  there.
That’s all.’
‘Well, may be she didn’t speak to him: may be she only saw
him.’
‘If she even saw him,’ said Cockie, being difficult. ‘Miss Betchley
was outside in the corridor, fussing. Peppi Kirk was at the Assembly
room door. She said words to the effect that he was there all the
time: he must be changing. Isn’t it possible that she simply glanced
at the peg where his armour should have been hanging, saw that it
wasn’t there, and assumed that he’d taken it out to the stables and
was changing?’
Charlesworth felt that it was all rather splitting hairs, and that
considering what Perpetua had later suffered, it did not very much
matter whether she had or had not heard from Earl Anderson’s own
lips  that  he  was  now  going to  the  stables or  a  dressing  room  to
shuffle into his armour. But the old boy seemed to make a great
Thing of it. He said at last: ‘Well, I’ll tell you what—I must go back to
the Yard now and thrash this thing out, so we’ll take Miss Kirk in on
the way and ask her. Besides, after that last note, we ought to warn
her about the present development, and what she’s got to watch out
for.’ Cockrill folded his short legs into the front seat of the little car,
and nursing his hat on his knees, was driven up to Bayswater.
‘Jolly decent of you to give me that hint, sir,’ was the gratifying
burden of  young Charlesworth’s  song. ‘I  daresay I’d  have  come
round to it, but there’s a hell of a lot to think about when one’s on the
case sort of—officially...’ (All very well to potter around and build up
neat theories in the intervals of some tin-pot conference...!)


Over the cup of tea and no tea-cake, Perpetua was confiding to her
new gallant the story of the note that had arrived with the morning’s
post. ‘Who then, Perpetua, can have sent this letter?’
‘I’ve no idea. The police have got it of course, and apparently it
was posted last night: but anybody could have put it in a letter-box
on the way home after the exhibition, or just before they came in. It
was posted from the local box.’
‘Can they tell nothing from the writing of it?’
‘Well, I suppose they’ll check all the typewriters any of us could
have had access to.’
‘We all have access to a thousand typewriters, Peppi. Any of us
can go to a typewriter shop and try one or two machines. No need to
write every time “The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog”.’
There was a postman’s double knock, and at the same time
Cockie and Bedd and Charlesworth arrived, Charlesworth carrying a
brown paper parcel. ‘Have you been buying a dizzy new hat, Miss
Kirk? Or who’s sending you a fancy bouquet? We rescued this from
the postman and brought it along to you.’
Cockie could not help hoping that it was not a hat. Once there
had been a hat: Francesca Hart’s absurd little nonsense of a hat,
found perched on the head of a dead woman... He hadn’t made a
muck of that case, anyway: or had he? He said, ‘Mr. Charlesworth
has something to ask you, Peppi. And something to tell you.’
‘Yes, Mr. Charlesworth?’ said Peppi, rather absently, longing to
know what was in the parcel, since she had purchased no hat. Her
fingers fiddled impotently with the cords.
Brian Bryan  took  it  out  of  her  hands. ‘I  do  it  for  you.’
Charlesworth asked about her having seen Anderson.


‘No,  I  didn’t see  him.  I  just  didn’t see  his  armour.’  It  was  all
exactly as that astute old devil had said.
Brian Bryan and  Perpetua sat  staring while Charlesworth
outlined the method of the murder. ‘I thought I ought to explain this to
you, and warn you, Miss Kirk,’ said Charlesworth solemnly. ‘You had
that warning note to-day: and as long as Earl Anderson’s at large,
you’re bound to be in danger.’
‘We  can’t  really make an  arrest, Peppi, you  see,’  explained
Cockrill, ‘until Earl Anderson’s found.’ He thought Scotland Yard a
trifle indiscreet, to say the least of it: but it was no business of his.
‘Well, hardly,’ said Charlesworth.
‘I know: that’s just what I’m saying.’
Brian and  Peppi sat  staring at  them both. Brian had  the
cardboard box  on  his  knees, and  his  neat  fingers picked
automatically at the strings; but he had forgotten it. ‘What are you
gentlemen saying...?’
People were extraordinarily slow in  the  uptake, really.
Charlesworth got  to  his  feet  and  collected his  hat.  ‘We’re  just
warning Miss Kirk: because of that second note she got this morning.
Wherever he is, he’s still got it in for her evidently; but don’t worry,
Miss Kirk, we shall be watching the place for him and you’ll be safe
enough. And  as  long  as  you  realize that  the  murderer was  Earl
Anderson...’
‘Earl Anderson?’ said Cockie. ‘Who on earth said anything about
Earl Anderson?’
‘The murderer, you fool,’ said Charlesworth. ‘What else have we
been talking about all this time? The murderer. The Red Knight. Earl
Anderson.’


Perpetua put out her hand—idly, almost blindly, not thinking of
what she was doing, thinking only of Earl: and lifted the lid of the
box, glancing incuriously at what it contained. A fold of tissue paper:
and  under that—pale and  transparent, with  tiny  figures of  fighter
aeroplanes—or were  they  really seagulls upside down?—Earl’s
bathroom curtains! She stood staring down at them; they all stared
down blankly; and still her mind had no room for amazement, it was
so full of the thought of Earl—of Earl, whom one had known so well,
Earl whom in a dazed way one had been so fond of, Earl who at
least had always been kind—and now was a murderer. Charlesworth
said again: ‘The Red Knight: the murderer—Earl Anderson!’ and she
lifted the covering fold of curtain material...
Dark hair. A leaden face. A horrible smear of blood, congealed
and black... And Earl Anderson’s witless blue eyes stared back into
her own.


Chapter IX
A COURTING COUPLE, ARMS entwined, had sat down upon the torso of
Earl Anderson under a bush on the evening after Isabel’s murder:
and never felt quite the same towards one another again. It was lying
in a patch of deep grass just off the main road to Maidenhead, and
with it was a perfectly ordinary bread knife, the blade red and rusted,
the handle so charred—doubtless deliberately—as to prevent any
possible identification. There was no blood upon the scene nor any
sign of a struggle; there were one or two footprints no longer very
clear,  and  apparently made by  the  victim’s  own  shoes,  which lay
chucked down beside the  body; and  what  with  one  thing  and
another, the experts decided that the man had been dead not more
than forty-eight hours, possibly a great deal less. ‘Rigor begins in the
head and neck, you see, old boy... And in this case the neck...’ It
was all very unattractive.
Charlesworth shifted wretchedly about the chilly little mortuary.
‘Can’t you give me anything more definite?’
‘Have a heart man, I’ve only just arrived from my breakfast, to
be confronted with your assorted heads and bodies.’
Charlesworth leaned over to look at the disembowelled torso on
the  slab.  ‘No  question of  the  wrong head  on  the  wrong body,  or
anything like that?’
‘My dear  Mr.  Chesterton—spare us  your  pretty fancies! We
haven’t got half a dozen headless bodies knocking around; not this
week we haven’t. You’ve found a head, and you’ve found a body—
and by the oddest coincidence, they match.’


‘You don’t know anything about pretty fancies till you’ve been in
on the Isabel Drew case,’ said Charlesworth gloomily. ‘As if towers
and knights in armour and Biblical analogies weren’t sufficient, I’ve
got  a  little  imp  of  a  man  called Cockrill making my  life  hideous,
forestalling my every thought, not to mention a few thoughts I don’t
have.’
Littlejohn, the pathologist, suggested comfortably that Inspector
Cockrill made something of a speciality in decapitations, didn’t he?
He flicked an enquiring finger at the slab. ‘Why this one? Do you
know yet?’
‘The murderer’s trying to frighten and upset this poor girl: and
you  can’t  send  whole bodies  through the  post—there’s  a  fifteen
pound limit or something. I presume the cause of death wasn’t the
beheading?’
‘I haven’t had enough time with him yet to be certain: but, no, I
shouldn’t think so. Off the record I should say that he was batted on
the head first with the regulation blunt instrument—he’s got a hell of
a bruise on the back of his nut. Then strangled—throttled from the
back, probably,  same as  the  girl—these people always repeat
themselves: and  then  the  head  was  taken off  quite  soon  after.
Whoever it was just hacked away with a knife—nothing skilled about
it.  It  would be  frightfully difficult  to  do,  actually—a horrible job.  I
should say he took quite a bit of time about it.’
‘He? Could a woman have done it?’
‘Anyone could have done it, old boy: whether or not a woman
would have—but I suppose that’s just sentimentality. A good hard
bonk on the back of the head—that’s child’s play. The throttling took
a lot of strength, but if the man’s unconscious it would just be a


matter of finding the right grip and hanging on tight till he caved in.
And then as I say, this business with the knife. I’ll get it all nice and
official for you by lunchtime.’
Charlesworth met the infuriating Inspector Cockrill in a tea place
opposite. ‘How the hell does one get hold of the waitress without
calling her “Miss”?’
Cockrill got hold of her at once, having no such inhibitions. They
ordered coffee.  ‘I’ve  been on  the  mat  this  morning,’ said
Charlesworth, ruefully. ‘My Chief is pretty unreasonable, I consider.
He seems to think I ought to have somehow prevented this—this
Salome act.’
‘Earl Anderson’s head on a charger?’
‘Only it  was  really more off  the  charger,  wasn’t it?’  said
Charlesworth, pleased by this flight of fancy. ‘Except that the charger
was only an old circus pony, actually.’
‘Anyway, your Chief thinks you ought to have done something
about it?’
‘Well, apparently. Though how I could have prevented it, I don’t
quite see. I was looking for a man alive or dead: but not by the
portion, I  must admit. I  suppose,’ said  Charlesworth gloomily,
spreading his toast with the pallid grape-fruit jelly striped with raw
carrot which here, as in so many similar establishments, passed as
marmalade, ‘that you knew all along that Anderson’s head, wrapped
up in his bathroom curtains, was on its way to Perpetua Kirk via the
penny post?’
‘No,’  said  Cockie. ‘I  didn’t know  about the  head. I  thought it
probable that Anderson was dead.’
‘Because of the mystery Knight upon the Left?’


‘As far as Isabel was concerned, the knight on her left was Earl
Anderson,’ said Cockrill. ‘So why the Mystery?’ He repeated the little
verse again:
‘Oh, Isabel, how beautiful thy face is!
It brings out homage in unexpected places.
And so the donor of this little gift
Is who? The Mystery Knight upon the left,’
He said: ‘It told one such a lot: didn’t it?’
‘Good lord, yes,’ said Charlesworth, fervently.  (Most
illuminating!)
‘The first thing that struck one was that Isabel Drew was not the
person to carry around a bit of nonsense like that next to her heart—I
mean, that she’d just shoved it down her front for somewhere to
keep it. That argued that she had received the note some time since
she had put on that particular dress, and even if she’d got it in her
dressing room, she’d surely have just put it into her handbag. As I
said at the time, the very wording of the note seemed to suggest that
it was sent to her, or left somewhere for her—not handed to her by
the writer. So all in all there was—well, a certain amount of reason to
suggest that the note and the brooch had been left for her in the
tower. No proof, of course.’
‘And no proof that the brooch was actually the “gift”!’
‘Well, no. But she wasn’t wearing any other jewelry: and the fact
that the pin of the brooch had gone through the paper did seem to
suggest that she first stuffed the note down her bodice and then
pinned the brooch into her frock over it. And it was a brand new
piece of jewelry.’


‘She then marched up to the balcony and leaned well out...?’
‘To see the “Mystery Knight”...’
‘Who  was not  Earl  Anderson,’ said  Charlesworth. He  added
thoughtfully, however: ‘Except that there was this point about Isabel’s
beauty bringing out  homage in  unexpected places. Well,  Earl
Anderson was  an  unexpected place to  find  homage to  Isabel’s
beauty. He’d been indifferent to it for years. Supposing he’d suddenly
been  struck  all  of  a  heap—he’d  expect Isabel to  be  surprised at
finding devotion coming from him.’
‘He’d  also  expect her  to  be  surprised at  diamond brooches
coming from him: and rightly so. Earl Anderson was an out of work
actor,’ said Cockie, with the simple scorn of those who if not actors,
have at least never been out of work, ‘so far reduced that he had
accepted a job riding around in phoney armour at four-pounds-ten a
week. And this was a brooch of pretty considerable value.’
‘It might have been his Mum’s old heirloom or Aunt Jemima’s
legacy: “never part with this, Earl, my boy, except to the Woman you
Make your Wife...”’
‘It might if it had not been a 1948 model,’ said Cockie.
‘Yes,’ said Charlesworth. Maddening little man!
Inspector Cockrill reached for his shabby hat and thrust it on to
his head, evidently only by way of keeping it out of the way while he
unhitched his shabby mackintosh from the back of a neighbouring
chair. He flung the coat over his shoulder, rose to his feet and called
out simply: ‘Miss!’
‘I’ll do this,’ said Charlesworth hastily, shuddering a little at this
bold frontal attack.


‘No,  no,’  said  Cockie. He  calculated the  bill  in  his  head  and
scrupulously contributed his share.
They walked off up the street together; a tall slim young man in
a  worn,  but  well-cut suit,  and  a  little  elderly man  with  stove-pipe
trousers, a mackintosh trailing over one shoulder, and a battered felt
hat at a rakish angle on a magnificent head. ‘And of course nobody
ever  did  see  Anderson at  Elysian Hall  that  day,’  said  Cockie,
continuing the conversation as though it had not been interrupted by
the paying of the bill. ‘Perpetua pointed out that his armour had been
removed: but  anybody might  have  removed it  and  at  that  very
moment was probably putting it on. The best disguise in the world—
a suit of armour.’
‘Except a diving suit,’ said Charlesworth.
Inspector Cockrill looked cross. ‘In this case, the introduction of
a diving suit would have struck a very outré note: I think we can
eliminate any  such  suggestion.’  He  shifted his  mackintosh on  his
shoulder and branched off abruptly across the street. ‘I’ll leave you
here: I’m supposed to be attending a conference!’ You tried to knock
sense into the young dunderhead and he started rambling off about
diving suits! These modern boys...
George Exmouth had been to call on Perpetua Kirk: but Peppi was
prostrate after  last  night’s  appalling shock, and  receiving nobody:
besides, added the  garrulous charlady,  there was  a  gentleman
already with her. Ever so lovely, it seemed, the gentleman was; and
foreign too.  George handed  in  a  large bunch of  flowers and
wandered miserably away. He felt very odd: he had not slept all night
and  his  brain  was  going round and  round in  the  most  peculiar
fashion. And when he got home, there was The Police, waiting for


him. He sat down on the okapi-skin divan and put his poor, young,
aching head in his hands.
Charlesworth explained his errand. Mr. Exmouth had heard that
Earl Anderson...?
Too horrible, said George, his fingers plunged deeply into his
soft, rather spikey brown hair.
The police had come to Mr. Exmouth for help. Of course there
was still the possibility that Earl Anderson had murdered Isabel Drew
—by a  method so  far  known only  to  Detective Inspector
Charlesworth and a Chosen Few—and had himself been murdered
afterwards, possibly by way of revenge. But he had not been seen
since  the  evening before Isabel’s  murder; and  that  being so,  the
suggestion being that he was already dead when Isabel was killed,
the question now was—who had taken his place in the pageant?
George Exmouth had  followed  the  Red  Knight in  their  cavortings
round the stage before Isabel’s murder: had sat astride the horse
facing him across the archway for perhaps a full minute just before
she fell. Had Mr. Exmouth anything to suggest that might help in
identification—might help to confirm identification...?
George stared open-mouthed. ‘You  mean somebody—
somebody else was in Anderson’s armour? Anderson wasn’t in the
pageant at all? Somebody had killed him so as to take his place...?’
‘Somebody had killed him anyway: and taken his place.’
‘But  that  could have been anybody,’  said  George wildly.
‘Anybody!’
‘Well,  not  exactly.  It  couldn’t have  been  you,  for  example,
because you were on your horse: and it couldn’t have been Brian
Bryan because he was on his horse, and it couldn’t have been any of


the  other  nine  knights. On  the  other hand, it  must  have  been
someone familiar with the routine of the pageant; and someone who
could go in and out of the Assembly room and not be particularly
noted.’ Which left only Perpetua Kirk...
‘It wasn’t Perpetua,’ said George quickly. Since it was unlikely
that they would take his simple word for it, he pointed out that all this
time Perpetua was tied up and locked away in the little room.
Charlesworth obligingly disallowed Perpetua. ‘Which leaves
Susan Betchley: and Mr. Port. And Miss Betchley was on the other
side of a bolted door.’
George Exmouth clutched his hair. His face was very white and
his  eyes  very  wild,  and  his  pale  lips  trembled like  the  lips  of  a
frightened child. He said in a terrified whisper: ‘You don’t mean that
Mr. Port...?’
‘Came the dawn!’ said Charlesworth to Sergeant Bedd.
But Mr. Port! ‘Why on earth should he want to kill Isabel Drew?
He was in love with her: he was having an affair with her—or—or
something, anyway,’ finished George uncertainly. Mr. Port was old,
probably as old as fifty or even sixty: did old men have ‘affairs’ and if
not what had there been between Mr. Port and Isabel Drew—who
quite  certainly did  have  affairs—anybody could tell  that,  just  by
looking at her: even anybody who was only seventeen and a half
and had not as yet had any affairs.
‘Mr. Port was very anxious that the news of the “affair” such as it
was, shouldn’t get back to his wife; and Isabel Drew was probably
not beyond exerting a little pressure in the way of blackmail.’
‘Even so—why kill Earl Anderson?’


Charlesworth moved restlessly in his chair, a tortured thing of
plastic and twisted steel. Why should old Port kill Anderson? It was
tricky, that. ‘You yourself suggested a reason,’ he said. ‘To take his
place in the pageant.’
‘Would Mr. Port kill a man just for that? A man he had nothing
against?’
‘No,’ said Charlesworth. ‘I don’t think he would. And if he did, he
would hardly chop  off  his  head and  send  it  haring about the
countryside in a nasty messy parcel. Unless of course Anderson was
in cahoots with Isabel Drew over the blackmail business.’
‘But Anderson himself was being blackmailed by Isabel.’
‘Yes,’ said Charlesworth. ‘And there’s still the business about
Peppi Kirk—the notes and the adventure in the little dressing room,
and the sending of the head. But there’s only one thing that those
three had in common, Isabel and Anderson and Perpetua Kirk—and
that was that business about the boy, Johnny Wise.’
‘And of course Mr. Port knew Johnny Wise in Malaya.’
Charlesworth picked up a pencil from Charity’s nightmare desk
and started idly to doodle on a sheet of paper. ‘They all knew Johnny
Wise in Malaya: Brian Bryan, Miss Betchley and Edgar Port. But just
knowing a  person is  not  sufficient reason for  murdering  on  his
account. People don’t do murder for their casual friends—not long-
calculated, long-planned, savage, cold-blooded murder.’
‘It depends how casual their friends were,’ said Sergeant Bedd,
perched on the edge of his chair as though it would cry out if he put
his full weight on to its atrophied legs.
‘Well,  they  naturally all  claim  that  Johnny Wise  was  quite  a
“casual”. Miss Betchley played tennis with him, Brian Bryan met him


at parties, Mr. Port thought he was a charming lad, and Mrs. Port
was so fond of him—indeed Mr. Port says that Johnny reminded
Mrs. Port of their lost son. But none of them knew him well. And we
can’t check anything. The records have gone up in the smoke of
Japanese fires, friends and families are dead or dispersed: we’ve got
to take their words for it.’
‘I never knew this Johnny Wise,’ said George carefully.
‘You would have been about nine years old when he died.’
George lost a shade more of his colour. He said rather quickly:
‘What about his family?’
‘His family consisted of a father and a mother and two or three
brothers as far as we know. A chap of that name was killed by the
Japanese during the early days of the invasion: but just who he was,
we aren’t sure. Johnny had a twin that he was frightfully devoted to:
and the classic thing would be that the murderer is his twin, come
back to avenge his death. But there just is nobody in the cast who
fits the role of the twin, so that’s out.’ He had doodled a little row of
people who might conceivably be taken to represent the ‘cast’, and
he now ticked them off lightly as he spoke. ‘Johnny was twenty-three
or twenty-four when he died: he’d be about thirty now. And Mr. Port’s
in his middle fifties, and Earl Anderson is or was in his middle forties,
and you’re seventeen, and Brian Bryan’s thirty-nine.’
‘He says,’ said George, significantly.
‘No,’  said  Charlesworth. ‘It’s  not  just  “he  says”. There’s  a
difference between just over thirty and just under forty—and Brian
Bryan is just under forty. It’s in his walk and manner and his—his
eye, and his hair and his teeth—he’s not a young young man. If it’s


got to be the twin, it isn’t Brian Bryan—and there’s nobody else.’ He
ticked off Brian Two-times with the rest of them—n.b.g.
So back to Mr. Port.
George had been, after all, trained to observation by a mother
who made a fat living out of copying other people’s ideas. He sat and
thought for a long time, his thin fingers rumpling his little-boy hair,
and said at last: ‘It’s true that he—the Red Knight—did look rather
small as he went off through the arch. Smaller than Anderson. One
thought of it—if one thought of it at all—as the effect of—of pathos:
one just thought how small and forlorn and rather pathetic he looked,
staggering out of the place, away from all the dreadfulness: after all,
he had known her for years—I mean, Earl Anderson had known her
for years. And she did look terrible. I saw just a glimpse of her face
when he lifted her up.’
‘Just a glimpse?’
‘Yes, his cloak sort of hid her. I still don’t see... I’m bewildered...’
Charlesworth could not  be  bothered clearing up  matters for
bewildered Master Exmouth. He got up abruptly off his chair, which
let out a creak of relief; and began pacing the room. His fingers had
twisted the paper he had been doodling on, into a little scroll and he
pointed it challengingly at George as he walked. ‘Never mind how he
did it: suppose for the moment that the part of the Red Knight was
taken—was definitely taken—by  Mr.  Port.  Can’t you  remember
anything, anything that would confirm this? He didn’t speak to you as
you went round? He didn’t make any sort of movement or gesture
that  you  would recognize? There wasn’t any—any distinguishing
mark?’ How a man in a full suit of armour could exhibit distinguishing
marks he could not quite see: but dash it all... And the knights had


worn their visors up so as to see which way they were going: surely,
surely George Exmouth sitting his horse slap opposite the fellow for
at least sixty seconds must have recognized something about his
face? Well, the bridge of his nose, then? His forehead then? His
eyes?
His eyes. George Exmouth said slowly: ‘Yes. I could see their
eyes. I saw Brian Bryan look over at me with a sort of alarm and
astonishment when his horse began to buck about: and then I looked
across at the Red Knight, because I didn’t know what on earth we
ought to do. But Earl Anderson had blue eyes. And now that I think
of it—now that I think of it—the eyes that looked back into mine that
night—were brown.’
Just precisely what Mr. Charlesworth had wanted to know.
Perpetua lay on her bed in a woolly jersey and dark slacks: and with
rugs, and her eiderdown over her, for all the summer sunshine could
not get warm. She looked very frail, her face pale and thin under the
mop  of  queer,  thick  golden hair;  her  eyes  were  clouded and  her
mouth held its old look of pain and defeat. Brian sat quietly beside
her, holding her hand. ‘Don’t think of it, Peppi... Forget it, don’t go on
brooding over  it...  He  is  dead  now,  Peppi, what  does  it  matter if
somebody plays ugly tricks with—with him? He does not know, he
does not care, he is peaceful. Forget all about it, go now to sleep, I
am  here, I  look  after  you...’  But  now  the  telephone rang. He
stretched out an arm for it. ‘Yes? Yes, I take it.’ After a moment,
unobtrusively, he rang off, though he still held the receiver to his ear.
‘Sorry, I think you got the wrong number. This telegram is not for
here.’ He held out his hand to her again and she took it in both her


own and laid her cheek against it: and so at last went softly off to
sleep. He sat looking down at her with pity and tenderness.
Inspector Cockrill  was  fated  to  attend not  one  full  sitting of  his
conference. He  was  disturbed  by  a  telephone call  and  went  out
grumpily to the little box in the hall outside the conference room. A
high, clear voice said, out of the past: ‘Cockie, pet!—Is it really you?’
‘Who is that?’ said Cockie austerely.
But he knew. And even his grim old heart melted at that young
voice. It said: ‘Do so many young women ring you up and call you
“Cockie, pet”?’
‘No,’ he said. ‘Most of them haven’t got the nerve. And only one
that I know, has the nerve to track me down and ring me up at a
police conference! That’s Francesca Hart. What do you want, you
naughty little girl?’
‘Darling Cockie!’ said Fran.
‘Don’t “darling Cockie” me. What is it now?’
‘You ought to be grateful,’ said the other end of the telephone. ‘I
saw that you were interested in this case, Cockie, and by the most
fantastic coincidence, I think I know something about it. Because I
was in a telephone box in Piccadilly Circus underground the other
evening—Tuesday evening—and I heard somebody talking to that
man who’s been found dead: Earl Anderson. I read about him in the
papers this morning.’
‘You heard somebody talking to Anderson?’
‘Yes. It was after ten and I couldn’t get a taxi, and I was worried
about not getting home because the baby wasn’t very well... You
know I’ve got a baby now, Cockie?’


‘High time,’ said Cockie. ‘Well, so at ten o’clock you were in a
call box at Piccadilly...?’
‘And  I  couldn’t  get  through. But,  of  course I  knew  there  was
someone at home, so I didn’t ring off but simply hung on and waited.
And I could just hear what the person in the next box to me was
saying: you can sometimes, if you’re not listening to anyone else. It
was a man and he said: “Can I speak to Earl Anderson, please?” I
noticed because it seemed such a funny way to put it: I mean, you’d
call an Earl “Lord” or something like that, wouldn’t you? Or wouldn’t
you?’
‘I’ve never called an Earl anything,’ said Cockie. ‘In this case it
was a man’s name: or the name he acted under.’
‘Well, yes, of course I realized that after a bit. Anyway, then I’m
afraid I  decided to  press button B.  and  start  all  over  again,  so  I
missed what  was  said  next;  but  still  no  answer from  home, so  I
began idly to listen again, and this time it was a long story about a
marvellous chance and something about Micky Balcon. So then I’m
afraid I listened all the more, because it did seem nice for somebody
to be having a marvellous chance and being talked about by Michael
Balcon...’
‘Why is it always Michael Balcon?’ said Cockie.
‘I  most  say  it  always is,  isn’t  it?’  said  Francesca. ‘And  they
always call him “Micky”. Do you mean to say that Earl Anderson was
just a down-and-out, and Michael Balcon hadn’t been talking about
him at all?’
‘I don’t suppose Michael Balcon ever even heard of him.’
‘Well, this person said he had, he said that Micky Balcon simply
adored Earl  Anderson’s  work,  and  he  mentioned a  lot  of  other


names. But I’m afraid I missed a bit here, because I got fed up and
asked “O” to try my number for me, and she did and I got through:
but  I  did  just  hear  the  man  say  something about O.K.  then,  and
they’d meet  at  half  past  eleven  at  the  Golden Golliwog and  he
seemed to be giving directions and saying something about wearing
a  red  carnation, as  though perhaps Earl  Anderson wouldn’t
recognize him. But then I got through and Nanny had been in her
bath all that time, and the baby was perfectly all right; and in some
peculiar way I’d got through without ever pushing button A., so I got
my tuppence back and went away. Considering the time they’d taken
getting me through, Cockie, I think that was fair, don’t you?’
Cockie was  not  interested in  the  ethics of  his  girl-friends in
swizzling the telephone company because their nannies took so long
over their baths. ‘Where or what is the Golden Golliwog?’
‘A  very  nasty pub,  darling,  out  on  the  Maidenhead road.
Pseudo-Tudor  without, red  leather and  chromium within, and
Dancing in what was the barn and still ought to be.’
‘Oh.  Now,  Francesca—any sort  or  kind  of  description of  this
man?’
But this was too much to hope. The man had seemed rather sort
of slouched down in the call-box and he had a soft hat on and, as far
as she remembered, a mackintosh; but he kept his back turned to
her.
‘You’re certain sure it was a man?’
‘He was dressed like a man,’ said Francesca, doubtfully. ‘But I
couldn’t possibly say that it wasn’t a woman dressed up, if that’s
what you mean. I hardly really noticed what he looked like—we were
sort of back-to-back in our little boxes, and as he wasn’t even the


Earl  Anderson who  was  getting the  Chance, I  wasn’t so  much
interested in him. All that I can say is that I have a vague impression
that he wore a soft hat and a mac, but so did practically every other
man in Piccadilly that night: it was a bit drizzly, if you remember?
Most men would have worn a mac’
Inspector Cockrill knew of one man who always wore a mac.
‘What was  his  voice like?  You  can  tell  me  that... Any—any
peculiarities?’
But  his  voice  had  been—just a  man’s  voice. Not  a  very  old
voice, not a particularly young voice, not high, not low, not squeaky,
not apparently in any way disguised. And not ‘foreign’.
Cockrill rang up the Yard and told Inspector Charlesworth. ‘A
middling sized man,’ said Charlesworth, excitedly. ‘Ordinary English
voice. On the night Earl Anderson disappeared—luring him away on
this excuse—a chap like Anderson will hare off anywhere for the
smell of a job!—down towards the Maidenhead road. He waited for
him there, I suppose: stopped the car on some pretext, got him to go
up the side-turning, perhaps, and there blipped him on the head,
strangled him and lugged him out on to the grass and chopped off
his  head. A  smallish man:  ordinary English voice. And  from  nine
o’clock onwards that evening Edgar Port was in his hotel room—he
says. No alibi.’ He snapped his fingers and gave the desk a little
bonk! with his clenched hand. ‘We’ve got him!’ he said.
No use going back to the conference now. Cockie collected his hat,
slapped it on to his head, and stumped out into the sunshine, his
head  thrust a  little  forward, his  hands clasped loosely behind his
back, very deep in thought. He stood himself an early lunch at the
Maison Lyons  and  then  walked on  across the  Park  still  thinking


deeply: and  came at  last  to  the  gate  leading out  into  Bayswater
Road. Miss  Betchley was  sitting  on  a  bench near  the  gate.  He
changed direction and approached her without ceremony. ‘I was just
coming along to see you.’
Susan Betchley put down her newspaper; her eyes were red-
rimmed as though she had been having a quiet cry behind its pages.
She said ungraciously: ‘Oh! Were you?’
Cockie sat down beside her, crossing his short legs. ‘I wanted to
have a talk to you, my dear girl. I think you’re going to get yourself
into a bit of a mess, if you’re not very careful.’
She folded the newspaper with inordinate care. She said again:
‘Oh,’ in that flat, uninterested voice. But she added: ‘In what way?’
Cockie rather liked  Susan Betchley.  She  was  a  girl  with  ‘no
nonsense about her’, as downright and uncompromising as a man.
He said: ‘What is there between you and this fellow Brian Twice, or
whatever it is they call him?’
She opened her brown eyes wide. ‘Between Brian Bryan and
me?—nothing whatsoever!’
‘But—you’re protecting him in some way: you’re telling lies to
protect him. Now, Scotland Yard is going to begin examining this
young man’s actions very carefully, shortly: and I’m a little afraid that
you’re going to get yourself into trouble.’
‘I  thought you  thought he  was  out  of  it?  I  thought you  were
encouraging all this—all this lovey-dovey with Perpetua Kirk?’
‘Oh,’ he said. ‘So that’s the way the wind blows?’
‘The wind doesn’t blow any way,’ she said, angrily. ‘There isn’t
any wind to blow.’


Cockie took out the inevitable cigarette papers and tobacco and,
sitting on the slatted wooden bench beside her, began to concentrate
on making himself a cigarette. He said flatly: ‘My dear girl—you’re in
love with the fellow!’
He kept his eyes down: but he could see the big, brown hands
clenched together between her  knees, could see  the  short,
unvarnished nails digging into the palms. She said at last: ‘What sort
of a fool would I be, to be in love with Brian Bryan?’
‘It’s  not  always the  most  sensible thing  in  the  world,’ said
Cockie, ‘to fall in love.’
She disregarded him. ‘At my age! Well over thirty—to fall in love,
to  wallow like  any  callow schoolgirl in  a  drama of  unrequited
passion!’ She looked down at her hands, at her handsome unalluring
legs and stubby, square feet. ‘As if any man could love me! Me—
why, I’m like a man myself, heavy and ugly... He’d have to be a
pansy!’ She rattled the newspaper, holding it up fanwise before her
face, as two tears tumbled over and raced one another down her
swarthy cheeks. ‘Look at me! Look at me! Even—even in agony, I’m
just rather—rather grotesque, a figure of fun, sitting here weeping
into The Times, over a pair of blue eyes that have never even looked
my  way:  trying to  turn  a  silly  schoolgirl schwarm  into  a grande
passion...’ She rubbed her cheeks with the back of her hands and
pulled herself abruptly together.  ‘Well—now I  suppose I’ve  given
myself away, good and proper. But you can’t despise me more than I
despise myself.’
He puffed at the completed cigarette. ‘I don’t despise you, my
dear child. He’s a very attractive fellow, and when you come to my
age,  you’ll  look  upon  your  own  age  as  just  about ripe  for  a  nice


schoolgirl pash! What I’m concerned about is, that you’ll do yourself
harm telling fibs on his behalf. The police are going to get very busy,
very soon.’
‘I thought you were the police,’ she said sullenly.
‘Well, I am, and I’m not. Anyway, in this matter I’m speaking only
for your own good. You’ll get yourself into a muddle, and not benefit
him.’
‘I don’t even see why you should think I’m going out of my way
to defend him.’
He looked at her from under his bushy eyebrows. ‘My dear Miss
Betchley—I’ve been listening to  witnesses giving evidence for
something like forty years. I saw the way you looked across at Mr.
Bryan when you said that you’d talked to him as he sat there on his
horse; just before the pageant, you know, when Perpetua Kirk was
being attacked outside. Now—that isn’t true, is it?’
‘What isn’t true?’ she said.
‘That you spoke to Brian Bryan.’
‘Of course it’s true,’ she said with an air of impatience.
‘Honestly?’
‘I give you my word of honour: there—will that do?’
‘Yes,’ said Cockie. ‘It’ll do very well.’ He flicked the long ash from
his cigarette with a nicotined finger-nail.
‘So if you’re suggesting that Brian wasn’t really sitting on his
horse...’
‘No, no,’ said Cockie. ‘We’ve gone through all that, he and I. But
it’s a funny thing: I could have sworn that you were hedging in your
evidence about him...’


‘You’ve just missed the bus a trifle, that’s all,’ she said, with a
faintly, just faintly, triumphant glance. ‘And anyway, there’s nothing
against Brian, is there? Whatever he might have done to Perpetua
Kirk, he couldn’t have killed Isabel Drew. That’s flat.’
‘I know,’ said Cockie. ‘That’s why I don’t want you to complicate
things for yourself and us by telling distorted truths.’
A rider bucketed past them along the Row, sitting very upright
and conscious on his tawny, varnished horse: bright-ringed hooves
kicked up  a  chuff-chuff-chuff  of  soft  earth. A  car  approached,
ponderous in  its  shining black  magnificence. ‘It’s  Mr.  Port,’ said
Susan Betchley.  ‘We’ve  all  got  to  go  down to  Elysian Hall—the
Detective Inspector wants us there.’
‘No doubt he’s going to “reconstruct the scene”,’ said Cockie
sourly.
Susan Betchley looked at him innocently. ‘Isn’t that a good thing
to do?’
‘We don’t do it in Kent,’ said Cockie, austerely. (They had done it
in Kent once, it was true, but the less said about that the better.) ‘And
anyway it usually comes at the end of a case. This case is about at
the  beginning,  for  all  I  can  see.’  He  graciously accepted  a  lift  to
Elysium, however, when Mr. Port stopped the car near the bench.
Motherdear was  in  the  front  seat. Cockrill thought he  looked
dreadfully white and ill. He said: ‘Are you all right, boy? You don’t
look too good.’
‘Of course I’m not all right,’ said George, bursting out with it
savagely, his miserable young eyes staring ahead of him, through
Mr. Port’s windscreen.


Mr. Port drove with nervous care along the broad road through
the park. ‘The foolish lad has got it into his head that he’s done me
some harm. Something about the colour of my eyes or something.’
He turned his head with a brief, reassuring smile at George, but his
face was haggard.
For George Exmouth, after an hour of agonizing examination of
conscience, had gone to Mr. Port and told him everything: about the
police visit, about his own final word of confirmation. Mr. Port said
anxiously: ‘Young  George seems to  think, Inspector Cockrill, that
they actually suspect me. Now, I’m sure that you can—can set his
mind at rest...’ Since Cockrill remained unresponsive, he outlined
the case against himself. ‘Earl Anderson had blue eyes. He says that
the Red Knight, when Isabel was killed, had brown eyes: and I have
brown eyes. Now, Inspector—did you ever hear such nonsense?’
It  seemed as  though a  weight  had  been  lifted  from  Susan
Betchley’s heart. ‘Why should it be nonsense? You were in and out
of  the  Assembly  room, you could  have  taken Earl  Anderson’s
armour: you could have rushed away off the stage and reappeared
as yourself. And nobody’d seen you in the meantime. What’s more,
only you, of all of us, could have afforded to buy a diamond brooch.’
‘It’s a lie,’ said Mr. Port, his lips trembling, his hands shaking on
the driving wheel. ‘It’s a lie. All lies!’
‘And you had a good reason to get rid of Isabel Drew. She was
going to  tell  your  wife  about your  affair  with  her.  She  was
blackmailing you.’
‘No,’ said Mr. Port, trembling. ‘Not that. Not blackmail. She—she
had  a  delicate conscience: sometimes she  used  to  think  that  we
should—should make a clean breast of the whole thing to my wife...’


His face was the colour of clay, his little hands lay on the driving
wheel like weighted gloves. ‘It’s true that—I didn’t want Isabel to say
anything to my wife.’ He began suddenly to speak to them about his
wife, hardly realizing perhaps that they were there, that he had an
audience at all; that every word told against him like a nail in his
prison coffin...  About her  sufferings, about her  gentleness and
courage and endurance, about her final breakdown when suffering
was over, and endurance no longer the need it had been. About
Charlesworth’s visit, and the effect it had had: about his own sins
against her and the weight upon his conscience because she was
suffering anew...  ‘What could Isabel Drew mean to  me,  in
comparison with my wife’s well-being...? And yet...’ He burst out: ‘I
made a fool of myself with that horrible girl, and now through my
wickedness and folly...’ He talked on and on. The car turned into
Kensington High Street, and wound its way as though of its own
volition, towards the Elysian Hall. ‘If anything happens to her—if she
never recovers her  true  mind—I shall  be  guilty  of  her  death: the
death of her mind.’
Miss Betchley said into the silence: ‘And yet you say you didn’t
murder Isabel?’
‘How  could I  have  murdered  her?’  he  said,  desperately.  ‘Of
course I wasn’t dressed up in any silly armour. I was standing in the
body of the hall, looking on.’
‘You haven’t got any alibi, Mr. Port,’ said Motherdear, gloomily.
‘Not for the night before, when Earl Anderson was killed, and not for
the whole day before the pageant either; except for the rehearsal in
the morning.’


‘Nobody has any alibis for those times,’ said Cockrill, throwing a
dash of cold water into the saucepan, lest it boil over before things
became really interesting. He  was  fond  of  promoting discussion
between the  suspects: sooner or  later  something useful almost
always emerged. He gazed blandly out of the window at the passing
scene. London with her blind grey eyes gazed back.
‘I had things to do all day,’ said Mr. Port stiffly. ‘I spent a lot of
time with my wife. The night before, I went to bed early. Everybody
did. I told them all to, so as to be fresh for the following evening: now
didn’t I? You can bear me out.’
Miss  Betchley and  Motherdear  acknowledged that  they  had
obeyed orders and gone to bed early and so had no alibis either for
the time of Earl Anderson’s murder—always supposing it to have
been committed during the night preceding the pageant. By this time,
however, no one supposed anything else.
‘I was in bed by ten,’ insisted Mr. Port; ‘soon afterwards, Isabel
rang  me.  But  of  course I  can’t  prove that  now:  because  Isabel’s
dead.’
‘And  so  is  Earl  Anderson,’ said  Susan Betchley.  She  leaned
forward, one hand over the back of his seat, the other clenched on
her  knee, and  there  was  nothing now  in  her  face  of  the  aching
bitterness that Cockrill had seen there twenty minutes ago: only a
sort of grim determination, terrible to see.
Mr. Port suddenly straightened his pudgy shoulders: his hands
gripped the wheel, he put his foot down on the accelerator and the
car shot neatly between two buses, rounded a corner, and overtook
a taxi-cab. He said with a new initiative in his voice: ‘And there you


are: Anderson is dead too. And I had no reason in the world to kill
Anderson.’
‘Unless it was to borrow his armour,’ said Motherdear.
Mr. Port raised both hands into the air, and brought them down
on the wheel with a little exasperated crash. ‘I kill Earl Anderson or
any man for such a reason! Don’t be ridiculous! And, anyway, why
me? You two are very free with your accusations... Why me? Why
not either of you?’ He jerked his head back in the direction of Susan
Betchley,  sitting  behind him  in  the  car.  ‘What about you,  Miss
Betchley: eh?  What about you?  You  loathed Isabel Drew: you
thought she was responsible for the death of poor Johnny Wise...’
‘I’ve told you a thousand times, Johnny Wise was just a casual
friend...’
‘And she was thick with your precious Brian Bryan, that you’re
sick with love for...’
George slewed round to  stare  into  the  back  of  the  car.  Miss
Betchley said savagely: ‘Shut up, you babbling old fool...’
‘And  you,’  said  Mr.  Port  to  Motherdear,  lifting his  hand  and
striking down upon the wheel again. ‘You’re very free too with your
accusations and your confirmations and all the rest of it...What about
you, my lad? You and your mother had known Isabel a long time:
long before any of us knew her... What was Isabel to you, eh? Just
tell us that...’
George stared dumbfounded at Mr. Port’s ashen face. ‘I? And
Isabel Drew! I—I never—hardly ever even spoke to her. And anyway,
if I had...’ He began to gather courage from his very innocence of
this monstrous, this ugly, this oddly disturbing charge. ‘Even if I had,


what about it? At least I’m—I’m young, and I’m free, I’m not like
you... If anybody’s calling anybody names...’
They  had  reached Elysian Hall.  The  car  stopped, Mr.  Port
leaned back in  his  seat. ‘How dare you, you  young
whippersnapper...?’
‘Well,  he  has  got  something there,’ said  Susan Betchley,
teaming up  with  George against the  base  betrayer of  her  secret
passion.
‘Love is not confined to the very young,’ said Mr. Port, lifting an
eyebrow. ‘You should be able to support me in that.’
Inspector Cockrill leaned back quietly in his seat, and let the
storm rage. Nothing like people having a good set-to: nothing like
frayed nerves snapping and old wounds bursting out afresh, to bring
out the truth among people too long under restraint. Now and again
he  contributed a  word  to  bring  the  embers to  a  blaze again: but
mostly it was unnecessary. Savagely and wantonly they struck out at
each other; caring nothing for each other, they yet dragged out old
injuries of the spirit, little old, long-forgotten grievances... Ashamed
and bitter, they eased their souls of their own niggling secrets: Edgar
Port, conscious of his own unworthy passion, jeered at Motherdear’s
impotent adoration for  Perpetua, at  Susan Betchley’s  unrequited
infatuation: George struck back with ugly names for elderly men who
doted on young women, Miss Betchley dragged forth the cause of
the injured wife... United against a common foe, she and George
Exmouth rallied together, together parried and struck. Mr. Port cried
at last: ‘And as for killing Isabel—I no more killed her than you did.
For all anyone knows you killed her: either of you or both of you....’
‘Why in God’s name should we kill Isabel Drew?’


‘Heaven knows: but here’s this affair between Perpetua Kirk and
Brian Bryan, and after all one of you’s in love with Perpetua, and the
other’s in love with Bryan...’ He pushed open the door of the car and
got out. ‘Either of you or both of you: there’s nobody else. I don’t
care two hoots who killed Isabel Drew: I don’t mind anybody knowing
that I’m glad she’s dead. But you’ve accused me; and now I accuse
you back.’ He dashed round the car wrenching at the door handles,
pulling open the doors. ‘Come on, come on, all get out. All come
along to the tower. This thing could have been done: it was done,
and it must have been done by one or both of you—and I’m going to
prove it...’  He  slammed the  doors shut  after  them, and  marched
before them into Elysium Hall.
The turnstiles at Elysium were clicking merrily away: they shouldered
their  way  through the  crowds, and  salesmen and  demonstrators
paused in their exertions to point them out to goggling customers.
From the throats of a dozen amplifiers, the tunes of the moment
hurdy-gurdied across the air; the atmosphere was heavy with the
press of people, urgent with their bustle and eagerness, with the
concentrated effort of hundreds of sales demonstrators forcing their
wares upon the indifferent or reluctant. But beyond the doors leading
back-stage, the sound was subdued to a sort of high-pitched hum; in
the Assembly room all was quiet, dusty and bare; only the twelve
suits of armour hung from their gibbets, their helmets at dreadful
angles on necks that seemed a foot long, on account of the gap
between the lower pegs and those on which the helmets hung. Their
shadowed eye-sockets stared hopelessly into space. In the centre of
the  room  stood Inspector Charlesworth. He  had  Brian  Bryan and
Perpetua with him. He said: ‘I thought it would be convenient if we all


met down here. I want to confirm something. One or two things.’ And
he crooked a finger at George Exmouth who went over and stood
beside him. He said: ‘You told me this morning that you saw the eyes
of the Red Knight, just before Isabel fell. Now—do you see those
eyes here?’
Such a very small thing to say: such an easy answer to give.
And yet on his answer, a life might hang. George stammered, white
and shaky: ‘They were brown eyes.’
‘I know. So you said. And who has brown eyes here?’
George looked wretchedly round the little group. Perpetua, Brian
Two-Times, Miss Betchley, Mr. Port... Grey eyes, blue eyes: and two
pairs of brown eyes. He gave a little defiant, obstinate shrug. The
answer was obvious: why put the onus of saying the words on him.
Charlesworth turned slowly towards Mr. Port.
Inspector Cockrill  said  suddenly: ‘Inspector—Mr.  Port  has  a
theory. Perhaps, before you say anything...’
Edgar Port might not have managed the fire-walking stunts back
home in the Malay, as Isabel had—how long ago!—suggested: but
he had been a member of the local amateur dramatic society and
frequently took such parts as that of the General in French Leave for
the delight of the members of the Club. He now flung himself into a
sort  of  Ruth  Draper performance, dashing to  and  fro  in  vivid
imitations of Miss Betchley and Motherdear, which would have made
Charlesworth die of laughter had it not all been so deadly serious,
and which brought a quizzical look to Inspector Cockrill’s beady eye.
‘Miss Betchley  and  young Exmouth have—have made  certain
suggestions against me,  Detective Inspector.  Very  well.  I  make
counter-accusations!’ It  was  all  very  dramatic, very  ‘pompious’ as


Brian Two-Times would have said: and yet—the little man was very
pale, his eyes were leaden; he was fighting for his life. ‘Half past five:
Miss Betchley arrives. She looks through the arch to make sure that
the stage is clear, she glances into the tower, she checks up the
suits of armour...’ He ran from suit to suit like a dog sniffing out a
suitable lamp-post. ‘All O.K.’ His face took on a look of determined
pleasure and relief. ‘Miss Betchley takes her place just outside the
Assembly room door.’ He stood there for a moment, apparently to
establish her squatter’s rights. ‘The knights come in, in ones and
twos and threes: they collect their armour and go off, some to the
dressing rooms, some to the stalls; they fetch their horses...’ He
mercifully left ten of the knights to the imagination. ‘Meanwhile—Mr.
George Exmouth arrives.’
‘I arrived at twenty to six,’ said George with tremulous defiance.
‘He comes into the Assembly room,’ said Mr. Port ignoring him,
throwing himself into the part of George coming into the Assembly
room. ‘He  takes his  armour.  He  changes, here  or  in  one  of  the
dressing rooms or in his horse’s stall...’ He beckoned them all out
into the corridor, and for a bad moment Charlesworth thought they
were to be treated to a pantomime of George changing in dressing
room or stall; Mr. Port, however, was content to walk along stiffly
from  this  point, as  though clad  from  head  to  toe  in  the  phoney
armour. ‘He secretes himself in one of the rooms. He calls, “Miss
Kirk—please come and help me out of my armour...”’ To their acute
discomfort, he called it, imitating George imitating Brian Two-Times’
voice. ‘He  ties  Miss  Kirk  up...’  He  wrestled with  an  imaginary
Perpetua, frightened and struggling. ‘He joins the other knights in the
Assembly room, mounted on his horse.’


Cockrill thought that they had lived through a good deal to learn
what could have been said in half a dozen words. He stood patiently,
however, while Mr. Port, having seen George safely on to his horse,
and  in  the  line  of  waiting knights, was  metamorphosed  without
warning into Isabel Drew. ‘She comes out of her dressing room. She
hurries through the crowded knights...’ He wove his way in and out
of thin air, like a fat little sailing ship, tacking before the wind. ‘She
goes into the tower. She disappears from us.’ But she reappeared in
the shape of Mr. Port hurrying back to become Miss Betchley, still
waiting at  the  door.  ‘You  think  I’m  going  to  suggest that  Miss
Betchley waited  until  the  knights had  gone through, and  then
followed her and strangled her, while they were on the stage...!’ He
challenged them all triumphantly.
‘No, I don’t,’ said Charlesworth. ‘Mr. Bryan says that he let Miss
Betchley in to the Assembly room, after Isabel Drew fell, and that the
door was bolted on this side. Whoever bolted it, it would be before
the knights rode through to the stage—there was no one to do it after
that.’
Mr. Port looked slightly crestfallen. He said, however: ‘Exactly. I
didn’t forget that. So what I suggest is this: the knights are all in the
Assembly room—they’re packed tight,  nobody notices  that  she
moves through them to the tower...’
‘Don’t they?’ said Charlesworth. ‘I thought she always stood at
the  door.  Surely they’d have  observed her,  suddenly pushing her
way through them... Surely someone would have mentioned it? After
all, people don’t become blind, deaf and dumb because they’re one
of a crowd. She must have passed close to some of them.’


‘You  suggested yourself that  any  of  the  knights could have
moved about freely...’
‘Because they  were  knights. Because they  were  in  armour.
Because the knights were accustomed to seeing people in armour
moving about...’
Miss Betchley gave a snort of contemptuous laughter.
‘You’ll have Mr. Port suggesting that I dressed myself up in a suit
of armour for this jaunt of mine! There was a spare one.’
‘It would have been a bright idea, wouldn’t it?’ said Charlesworth
equably. ‘Then nobody would have noticed you: in fact nobody would
have recognized you, you might have been a man or a woman...
After all, short of a diving suit, one can’t imagine a better disguise:
and  if  you  happened to  be  caught sight  of  at  the  window or
anything... Yes, it would have been a good idea. However—what
now?’
‘Now we have me creeping up the ladder to strangle Miss Drew,’
said Miss Betchley sarcastically.
‘I’ll be Miss Betchley strangling Miss Drew, Mr. Port,’ suggested
Charlesworth, gaily. He moved over and stood in the little doorway of
the tower. ‘Is that what you think happened?’
‘Yes, I do,’ said Mr. Port firmly: but he was beginning to sweat a
little, he was not so sure. ‘I think she strangled the girl and left her
propped up  against the  window  in  the  semi-darkness, before the
lights  moved up;  and  I  think  that  she  went  back  and  out  of  the
Assembly room door, and Mr. Exmouth bolted it behind her, so that
we should all think what we have all thought: and then the knights
rode through.’ He shepherded his flock on to the stage, where they
stood like a party of sightseers, staring obediently up at the window


of the tower. Charlesworth appeared there, and leaned towards them
over the balcony. ‘And Mr. Exmouth had the noose arranged and he
pulled the body down? Eh, Mr. Port?’
‘I was the knight on her right,’ protested George, uneasily. ‘The
poem said the knight upon the left.’
Inspector Cockrill glanced at Charlesworth with a gleam in his
eye. ‘As I said at the time—an “e” or a “y” makes such a difference.’
Mr. Port’s eye shifted to him. He declaimed the last couplet of
the poem: ‘“And so the donor of this little gift, Is who?—the Mystery
Knight upon the left”.’
Cockie stood facing the tower. ‘The left might mean either side
of the archway—according, as I said earlier, to the point of view. ‘Thy
left would have meant Isabel’s left; then we should have been certain
that the Red Knight was the Mystery Knight and not...’
But Charlesworth was staring at Mr. Port’s little round face. He
said: ‘How do you know the words of the poem?’
There was a moment of absolute silence. You could see Mr.
Port’s heart go cold within him. He stammered at last: ‘We all knew a
poem had been found...’
‘The wording of it has not been made public. Well, never mind,’
said  Charlesworth,  waving it  to  one  side,  ‘carry on  with  the
reconstruction. We’ll come to that later.’
But the reconstruction had fallen flat. ‘I merely suggested that
the girl might be already dead,’ said Mr. Port, sullenly. ‘And young
Exmouth had the ropes arranged and pulled her down.’
‘Why?’ said Cockrill.
‘To create just the sort of mystery that was created: to prove that
Miss Betchley couldn’t have done it, when in fact she could.’


‘Except,’ said Miss Betchley, coldly, ‘that I happened to be on
the other side of the door all this time: the door being bolted on the
inside.’
It shook Mr. Port for a minute: but he waved a pudgy hand at
Brian Bryan. ‘So he says!’
Brian’s eyes shone with the light of battle. ‘Ha! Am I now also
having collusions? With Miss Betchley and with—him?’ He looked
George over from head to foot, as though Mr. Port had dragged in
and laid at his feet a small, furry rabbit, infinitely harmless, really
rather sweet. Charlesworth said hurriedly: ‘There is not the slightest
suggestion that either Miss Betchley or Mr. Bryan had ever set eyes
on Mr. Exmouth before the rehearsals for the pageant started: and
moreover,  whatever their  individual reasons may  be  for  wishing
Isabel Drew dead, he and they have absolutely nothing in common. I
think we must keep this thing within the bounds of common sense. If
Miss Betchley and Mr. Exmouth are in collusion, Mr. Port, then Mr.
Bryan’s testimony is reliable. And he says that the door was bolted.’
The rain of the previous evening had been a last effort before
the sun took over and a heat wave set in. It was very hot in the hall.
All about them, the noise of the exhibition drummed, the chatter of a
thousand voices merged into a continuous high-pitched drone, the
fatuous sentiment  of  the  songs of  the  day  blared out  from
loudspeakers in a tinny torrent of treacle. Beneath their feet the stale
air beat up from the dirty boards of the stage. Perpetua stood at
Brian’s shoulder in her narrow flowered summer frock. Life was very
strange. A  week  ago—three  days  ago—it had  been  but  a  dusty
dream: a  dream that  she  had  endured because she  had  not  the
courage nor the interest left to put an end to it, a dream in which she


had lived in the company of Johnny, dead, and Earl Anderson rather
earthily alive.  But  now  Earl  was  gone: and—strange, half-terrible,
half-happy realization—Johnny was  going too.  The  memory of
Johnny and of the sin against Johnny was fading into a gentle regret:
remorse always, regret always—but no longer the death in life that
remorse and regret had been. She thought: ‘I am beginning to find
peace again.’ Peace. Not happiness—not yet. But in the last terrible
days there had been a gleam, through the stark terror of the scene in
the  dressing room, through  the  shock of  Isabel’s  death and  the
fantastic horror of Earl’s dead face staring up at her from the depths
of a cardboard box—through the personal fear that had dogged her
ever  since the  first  of  the  threatening notes had  come—still
something forced its  way  which could not  be  mistaken: the
glimmerings of  happiness once  more. She  knew  that  she  was  in
deadly danger.  She  knew  without telling, that  the  telegram which
Brian had pretended not to accept in her room that morning, had
been a  new  threat to  her.  But,  nevertheless—there  it  was.
Somewhere in the nightmare of mystery and fear was the first faint
gleam of the dawn of happiness. She stood at Brian’s side and from
him seemed to flow security and strength. She did not love him, she
loved nobody, she would never love again... And yet...
Brian Two-Times was unconscious of her presence beside him.
He  fought Miss  Betchley’s  battle, blue  eyes  blazing. ‘Here is
nonsense! First, Miss  Betchley kills  Isabel and  afterwards Mr.
Exmouth pulls her down: but Isabel died at the time she fell or was
thrown—not ten minutes before! No need, therefore, for collusions.
Very well, then, Miss Betchley killed her and threw her down. But she
could not have got out of the Assembly room, bolting the door behind


her. So! Idyotic!’ He stood with the black felt hat pushed on to the
back of his head, the inevitable mackintosh hanging loosely about
him, his hands thrown out, his shoulders almost up to his ears in a
shrug of despair at the folly of Mr. Port. Susan Betchley fixed on him
a  gaze  of  passionate gratitude. Inspector Cockrill twiddled his
thumbs.
Mr. Port fired his final shot. ‘It all depends upon that door being
bolted. Nothing to prevent Miss Betchley and Mr. Bryan from being in
collusion.’
Brian took off his black hat with one hand and with the other
solemnly tore  his  bright hair.  ‘We  keep  asking ourselves why  the
body was thrown down,’ said Mr. Port, disregarding this exhibition,
as the idea grew and took fire in his brain. ‘Supposing it was thrown
down for this very reason: to give Mr. Bryan the chance to urge his
horse through to the Assembly room and to give Miss Betchley an
alibi about that bolt.’ The colour had come back into his face, he was
alight with excitement and relief at his own escape. And yet... He
knew what  it  was  to  be  terribly near  to—discovery...  He  said,
apologetically: ‘I’m sorry, but there it is.’
Brian Two-Times replaced his hat and gave it a sharp slap down
upon his head. He said sharply: ‘You do not flatter me, Mr. Port. We
plan this murder: and I confine myself to a few raw lies, and allow my
partner to do the killing. And that partner—a woman!’ He made Miss
Betchley a comic little, foreign little bow.
George Exmouth said thoughtfully, almost to himself: ‘A woman!’
Inspector Charlesworth turned away from them and walked a
few steps, deep in thought, and returned. He shook off Brian Bryan’s
protestations. ‘No, no, of course I don’t believe such nonsense. I


know you wouldn’t let any woman do a job like that. But—you were
rather dazed by  your  fall,  Mr.  Bryan, weren’t  you?  Can  you  be
absolutely certain that that door was bolted?’
‘Certainly I can be certain,’ said Brian, immediately.
‘Because if it wasn’t...’ He was suddenly galvanized into action.
‘Let’s  try  it.’  He  ran  off  through  the  arch  and  reappeared at  the
window in the tower, leaning perilously over the fragile balcony to call
down to them. ‘The knights have all ridden through on to the stage.
Miss Betchley has waited till the assembly room was empty, and
then come through and into the tower. I’ll be Miss Betchley. What I
propose to do is to wait till Isabel’s big moment, and then creep up
on her from behind, and throttle her—I’ve got rather strong hands.
Then I’m going to scoot back to my post outside the door and when
the fuss subsides a bit, I shall come out on to the stage and be ever
so surprised at what has happened to poor dear Isabel...’
Inspector Cockrill stood with his hat on the back of his head as
he  stared up  at  the  tower,  his  hands loosely clasped behind the
swinging tails of his shabby old mackintosh. He listened only vaguely
to  what  Charlesworth was  saying. For  now  the  first  piece  of  the
puzzle had  suddenly settled  itself  into  its  place on  the  board.
Something that had been said—something that had been said in the
past half hour, had placed the piece there: and oddly enough the first
piece was the most important piece of all—was a figure in armour—
the figure of a murderer! Usually, one filled in the background, settled
the other figures into their proper places: came at last, by elimination
to the final piece. But in this case, the last piece came first: because
the clue given could point to only one person. There were a hundred
pieces still to be fitted in, and until they all found their places nothing


could be  done, nothing should be  said:  the  ropes, the  bolt,  the
brooch and the note, the brown eyes of the Red Knight, the head of
Earl Anderson wrapped up in a pair of bathroom curtains in a box:
the voice that had said to Perpetua, ‘I com back!’, the voice that had
promised Earl Anderson a meeting with ‘Micky Balcon’ at the Golden
Golliwog... In his mind, Inspector Cockrill picked up a piece of the
puzzle, and  turned it  over  in  his  fingers, and  after  a  little  while
replaced it where he had taken it from. Mr. Port had brown eyes, and
Mr. Port would have had access to the Red Knight’s armour, and Mr.
Port might have been closer to Johnny Wise than he now revealed...
But at the time that the voice in the telephone box was speaking to
Earl Anderson, Mr. Port had been at home in his hotel: for Isabel
Drew had put through a call to him there... Perpetua said that Isabel
had told her she would ring up Sugar-Daddy and get some comfort
from him—and now the hotel confirmed putting through a call...
Charlesworth broke in  upon  his  reflections, gaily  declaiming
from the balcony above their heads. ‘Now—I’m Miss Betchley. I wait
till the lights are concentrated on the knights down below, and then I
take two hands to Isabel’s throat. And I pitch her dead body over the
balcony,  so  that  the  knights  will  stand frozen with  horror  and
astonishment long enough for me to make my getaway out through
the Assembly room...’
Cockie decided it was time to stop all this nonsense. He called
up crossly: ‘It couldn’t have been done.’
‘Why not?’ said Charlesworth, slightly taken aback.
‘The knights didn’t  stand still  frozen with  horror and
astonishment. The body fell almost on top of the white horse, which
reared and bucked and then bolted through into the Assembly room.


There wouldn’t have been time for Miss Betchley to have got across
and out of the door. The White Knight would have seen her.’
Charlesworth was slightly dashed. He said, hopefully, however:
‘Of course he was rather dazed.’
But Brian Two-Times was not timing his stupors for the benefit of
Mr. Charlesworth. ‘He was dazed by the fall from the horse,’ said
Cockie firmly. ‘He was well into the Assembly room before he fell—I
was  watching the  whole thing, remember,  and  he  didn’t actually
tumble off until he was right through the arch. In that bare room he
must have seen anybody trying to make their way across.’
‘Oh,’ said Charlesworth. He stood with one foot on the rail of the
balcony, leaning forward to look down at them, his elbow across his
knee. They  stared back  up  at  him,  with  craning necks.  Now  and
again Motherdear glanced uneasily at Miss Betchley, and then gazed
up at the balcony again. Perpetua stood close to Brian: he seemed
to  have  forgotten her,  but  there was  something about his  very
presence that gave her comfort; it was like standing in the glow of a
fire. The back of Mr. Port’s neck was creased into a little fat roll; he
avoided looking at Miss Betchley’s set mouth and resentful eyes.
They were all silent.
Charlesworth straightened himself at  last.  ‘Well—let’s  try  it
anyway. Let’s just prove that it couldn’t have been done. Let’s see, at
any rate, how far she could have got... How long would you say,
Inspector, was Mr. Bryan’s horse bucking about?’
Cockrill considered. He said, his eyes consulting Brian’s ‘Half a
minute?’
‘Half a minute. Right. Well, now, I’m Miss Betchley. Inspector,
perhaps you’d be Mr. Bryan, would you? and cut out Mr. Port with a


nice equine impersonation, bucking about for half a minute and then
galloping through into the Assembly room. O.K.? Good. Right, now—
one two, three...’ He disappeared from view.
Inspector Cockrill did no bucking about, but he stood stoutly in
the archway for thirty seconds by his watch and then let the rabble
through. Charlesworth was legging it halfway across the Assembly
room. He threw up the sponge immediately. ‘It’s getting down the
ladder that takes the time. I don’t think you were more than half a
minute bucking about, Horse, were you?’
‘On the night, you mean?’ said Cockie. ‘No. Half a minute. And
even that’s generous.’
Around them  the  twelve suits  of  armour grinned down, their
visors gaping above the long necks that were not really there. ‘It
couldn’t have been done,’ said Cockrill, with an air of finality. ‘She
couldn’t have got down those steps and across this room in the time,
and closed the door behind her. He would have seen her.’ He put his
hands behind his back and stumped off through the archway on to
the stage again. Waste of time!
Charlesworth followed him,  irresolutely.  ‘Let’s  just  try  it  once
again. It’s  so  frightfully important.  Because if  it  could have  been
done...’ He left the air filled with unspoken menace, and went back
through the  arch.  After  a  little  while, his  voice called from  the
window: ‘O.K. Half a minute from now.’ As Cockie stood grumpily
counting they heard his feet clattering down the ladder within the
tower. Twenty seconds. Twenty-five seconds. Half a minute... They
pushed aside the bead curtain and looked through into the Assembly
room.
There was nobody there.


Cockrill went to the tower doorway: there was nobody in the
tower. George Exmouth said in a half whisper: ‘He’s done it! It could
have been done.’ He confronted Susan Betchley, his white young
face staring with frightened eyes into hers. ‘He’s proved that it could
have been done. You could have killed her and flung her down, and
got across the room: and just pretended to rattle at the door so that
Mr. Bryan thought that it was bolted...’
George Exmouth with  his  young, white, peering face:  Edgar
Port,  little  and  round, dapper hands beaded with  nervous sweat:
Perpetua, cool  and  gentle, with  anxious grey  eyes: Brian—Brian
standing beside Perpetua with his hand on her arm, comforting and
strong—as if it were she, Perpetua, who needed strength... Susan
Betchley closed  her  aching eyes  against the  pain  and  fear  and
bewilderment of it all. She said: ‘Supposing that I could have done it
—for God’s sake why should you think that I would do such a thing. I
—I didn’t care two hoots about Isabel Drew. I thought she was bad, I
thought she  was  cruel  and  selfish and  immoral, but  all  that  was
nothing whatever to do with me. I hardly knew the woman. I met her
because Johnny Wise had written to me about her: when I got here, I
found that it was true that she had—well, caused his death. I think
she did. And I think she deserved to die for that. But it wasn’t for me
to  kill  her.  Johnny  was  nothing to  me:  nothing but  a  nice,  good,
charming—casual friend. And one doesn’t commit murder for one’s
casual friends.’
Mr. Port said: ‘He may have been a greater friend than you say.
He may have been your lover, for all we know... He was just your
age, after all.’ He repeated it more slowly, staring... ‘He was just—
your—age...’


‘And Johnny Wise had a twin,’ said George. His frightened eyes
looked into the steady brown eyes, looked at the strong square jaw
and strong hands, at the swarthy skin. His voice went high. He said:
‘I knew it! She’s a man!’ And he put out his hand and caught at the
fastening of her blouse.
A suit of armour detached itself from the wall against which it
dangled; and came forward in two strides and knocked away his
hand.


Chapter X
ANOTHER PIECE OF THE puzzle clicked into its place, dovetailing neatly
with the figure in armour already in the centre there. Charlesworth
through the  raised visor  cast  at  Inspector Cockrill one  glance of
exquisite, unalloyed triumph. He held George Exmouth by the wrist,
and after a moment, flung back the hand with a vicious force that
almost knocked the  owner backwards. He  said.  ‘These dramatic
disguises—they don’t  work  in  real  life.  A  man  who  has  been  a
normal man for years can’t suddenly look and talk and walk and
behave like  a  woman.’ He  put  the  backs of  his  knuckles for  a
moment against Miss Betchley’s brown cheek. ‘This skin has never
been shaved.’
Motherdear stood scarlet with  mortification. He  mumbled
wretchedly: ‘I’m sorry.’
Perpetua supposed that it would be ‘womanly’ to go and stand
beside Miss Betchley, to rally to her own sex in some way: but it
seemed rather dramatic and self-conscious. She looked uncertainly
at Brian for guidance. Brian had no inhibitions about drama. He left
her  side  and  strode forward and  you  could see  immediately that
idyotic was  simply not  the  word  for  it.  ‘So!  She  is  not  a  man.
Everybody can know that—except this foolish boy. And also I may
tell you—she iss not a murderer. The door was bolted. Even if she
could have got across the room she could not have bolted that door
behind her. When I went to the door, I woss not dazed. The door was
bolted. So!’ He challenged Charlesworth with his bright blue eyes.
‘She is not a man,’ said Charlesworth. ‘But that doesn’t mean
that she is not a murderer.’ He unfastened the latches of his helmet


and wriggled his head free; it was made in one piece and hinged
down the back, so that, closed, it formed a sort of metal pot. ‘You say
that the door was not bolted: but after all, though I don’t believe in
your collusion with Miss Betchley, there’s such a thing as accessory
after the fact. You’d have protected anyone who killed Isabel Drew
by way of revenge for the death of Johnny Wise. Wouldn’t you?’
‘Certainly, I would,’ said Brian coolly. ‘But if this is so—why then
the nonsense with the armour? My horse comes bolting through the
arch, I see Miss Betchley running across the room, making for the
door. I say: “What you are doing here?” She says: “I have just killed
this Jessabel who killed poor Johnny.” I say: “You have my help. Go
now through the door and I lock it on this side.”’ He smiled at her. ‘I
would not give her away.’
‘She  wasn’t to  know that,’  said  Charlesworth. ‘She  couldn’t
foresee that  your  horse would bolt  and  you’d come through.’ He
thought out  carefully why  Miss  Betchley should have  put  on  the
armour.  ‘That  bead  curtain—it  dangled and  swung in  the  draught
through the arch. Just possible that the audience might have seen
her as she passed across the room from the door to the doorway of
the  tower.  And  then,  Isabel herself—better,  just  in  case  anything
went wrong, just in case she didn’t die outright, that she shouldn’t
recognize her assailant. And the murder itself: suppose Isabel were
to  struggle, suppose for  a  moment they  were  to  appear at  the
window of  the  tower and  be  seen—suppose that  anything
unforeseen turned up—then the armour, an impenetrable disguise,
would have been a Good Thing.’
Click, click, went little bits of the puzzle, fitting themselves neatly
together. Only bits of the outside background though. Cockie pushed


them to  one  side  of  the  frame. Charlesworth went  on.  ‘And
something unforeseen did happen. The White Knight came hurtling
through the arch when she was less than half-way across the room.
She stood still, petrified with the shock: and he looked at her blankly,
interested only in keeping his seat on his horse. A piece of armour,
against the wall—there was nothing much out of the way about that.’
‘Except that when I came back through the room after letting
Miss Betchley in,’ said Brian, ‘thiss armour was against the wall, true,
but the helmet was on the peg eighteen inches above it. Was I not
perhaps surprised that suddenly the neck had become so long?’
‘You needn’t have noticed it. And after all, I did the same thing
just now, and none of you realized that one of the suits of armour
was actually wearing its helmet.’
‘Just now you were one of twelve suits of armour,’ said Cockie.
‘Then there was only one suit, in an otherwise empty room.’
‘Well, say he was busy with his horse: he just didn’t notice it,
that’s all. And he had no time to be observant: the weight of the
armour and the unexpectedness of the whole thing was too much for
him and he toppled off and gave his head a frightful bonk and lay, flat
out for a minute, on the floor. She saw what had happened: she
scrambled out of the armour, left it propped against the wall and
hooked up the helmet over it, and dashed across to the door. Once
on the other side, she began to hammer and yell as though she
couldn’t get in. He staggered up and went and opened it, fumbling at
the bolt in his half dazed condition: probably she held the door from
the other side and he had a job to pull it open. He was still very
muzzy.  Maybe  he  genuinely thinks the  bolt  was  shot.  Maybe he
doesn’t. But either way—it was not. Miss Betchley had been in the


Assembly room since the  knights had  ridden through and  had
murdered Isabel  and  thrown her  down, and  come back  and  let
herself through that door.’ He looked like a tortoise, very earnest and
concentrating fiercely, his head sticking out over the circular metal
rim of the armour’s neck.
‘But then,’ said Perpetua in her sweet, vague, just faintly stupid
way, ‘who was it that I heard whistling?’
He turned on her sharply. ‘Whistling?’
‘But I told you, Mr. Charlesworth: “Sur le pont d’Avignon”. All the
time I was lying bundled up in the cloak in that horrible little room.’
Charlesworth relaxed the  tenseness of  his  position at  Miss
Betchley’s side. ‘Ye Gods, Miss Kirk—has it just entered your head
to point this out?’
She eyed him limpidly. ‘Well, no. I’ve been thinking of it all along.
I was waiting for you to work it all out and show that Miss Betchley
could have done it, and then show how she couldn’t after all because
all the time Isabel was being killed, she was sitting there whistling.’
She added gently: ‘As I told you.’
Inspector Cockrill was far too busy to repay Mr. Charlesworth’s
earlier glance of triumph. Click, click, click went the pieces of the
puzzle, sorting themselves out,  arranging themselves into  little
groups to be fitted later into their proper places. Miss Betchley had
an alibi, then, for the time of Isabel’s murder. So had Perpetua who
had been locked up in the little room. So had Brian Bryan, to which
alibi several thousand people could testify. And Mr. Port had an alibi
for the time when Earl Anderson’s murderer had been in a telephone
booth in Piccadilly, luring him out to his assignation with death. And
Motherdear...


Charlesworth was passing the whole thing off, ever so careless
and all-for-the-fun-of-finding-out. He offered cigarettes all round, and
fumbled in his pocket for his lighter. There was a twist of paper there.
He could not think where he had got it from.
He  had  got  it  from  George  Exmouth’s  home and  on  it  was
written: Here, in unconsecrated ground, lies George Exmouth who
for the honour of the woman he loved...
Perpetua could  not  get  to  sleep that  night. Brian  Two-Times  had
seen her to her door and there had kissed her hand and said good-
night  and  gone  off  down the  road,  with  his  odd,  rather bouncing
stride, the black felt hat on the back of his golden head and the
mackintosh flapping half-way down his calves. There was something
just  faintly  comic about him,  once  the  compelling charm of  his
nearness was removed: something just bordering upon the pathetic,
because he was so cool and gay and certain of himself, so serenely
unaware of the utter unsuitability of an Anthony Eden hat and a long
flapping mac on a midsummer day in town. Perpetua, lying awake in
the hot night, wondered to herself whether this really was something
to be welcomed—this metamorphosis of her strength and stay into, a
sort of grown-up little boy, that nobody but his mother could love
because he was boastful and self-confident and a bit of a show-off,
and had big, knobbly knees. She smiled to herself tenderly in the half
dark of her room. Brian Two-Times might have knobbly knees, but he
had nice hands: hands that made your heart turn over with a little
bonk, when they took your own. All foreigners kissed people’s hands
of course: but nevertheless it was nice to have your hand kissed by
Brian Two-Times, standing in your doorway, looking up at you as he


bowed over your finger-tips with friendly, smiling, shining heavenly
blue, blue eyes...
She could not sleep. She got up at last and put on a pair of
slacks and a jersey. The room seemed incredibly small and stuffy:
she must get air. Quietly, so as not to wake the sleeping house, she
let herself out of the big front door. The clock of a Bayswater church
struck one—two—three.
The streets seemed very strange. Perpetua’s nights-out for the
past seven years had ended at closing-time. Earl had been a great
one for sitting about in pubs chattering away impersonally to a vast
circle of  acquaintances whose names he  did  not  know,  whose
concerns were of no interest to him, whom he never saw or thought
of outside ‘the local’. At half past ten or eleven, they had wandered
back to his flat or to Perpetua’s room, and there made tea or coffee.
When Earl was in town, it was more or less a routine. But now the
streets were not like the streets she knew. They were so silent: and
so empty. On the doorsteps, little groups of milk bottles huddled with
their dirty white collars, waiting for the roundsman to collect them
next morning and take them off to be washed and spruced up and
sent  out  on  duty  again... In  the  areas, the  dustbins spilled forth
unsightly contents, relentless reminders of man’s mortality: now and
again the still air gave a tiny sigh, and a whiff of decay was borne
away upon the  breeze. The  plane trees rustled, whispering a
message from the dustbins: ‘All is rottenness: all is death...’, the high
street lamps cast shadows in angled walls that seemed as black and
bottomless as eternity. A couple reeling home late from a party were
swallowed up by a dark doorway: already the glow and the rapture
were fading—to-morrow there would be sick headaches and queasy


tummies... Beauty vanishes—beauty passes... Only the cats were
heedless and unafraid, darting across the patchwork shadows of the
streets on plush-cushioned, soundless paws. What threat had death
and decay and nothingness?—to a sleek, suave gentleman with nine
lives  before him  and  every one  packed with  adventure  that  had
nothing to do with death—on the contrary!
Perpetua wished that  she  had  not  come out.  The  air  was
refreshing but a new sense of danger pressed on her as stiflingly as
though she had been back in her little room. If I were a cat, and each
of the threats a life, she thought, I should have only six lives left. And
then there had been the attack in the dressing room, and the—the
head... I must have died a death each of those times. So that’s only
four  more. And  if  a  threat is  a  death—four lives  isn’t  very  much
between me  and  eternity.  Between the threat  of  murder  and—
murder. She swung round suddenly and began to retrace her steps
as fast as she could go: and then the very fact that she was hurrying
seemed in  itself  a  frightening  thing, and  she  slowed down her
footsteps. Clop, clop, clop went her heels on the pavements in the
quiet night.
Somebody was following her.
All of a sudden she knew it: knew that the sense of danger had
not been born only of the night and the breeze and the shadows—
knew that an inner ear had heard first what her ears now too clearly,
too  terrifyingly clearly,  heard. The  pad,  pad,  pad  of  feet  on  the
pavement: following her.
If she stopped for a moment—would the following feet stop too?
But she did not dare to stop. Her footsteps quickened, she broke into
a little, shambling, terrified trot, jerking her head over her shoulder


now and again, to stare back into the secret shadows through which
the footsteps padded relentlessly. On a thin, high note a voice cried
suddenly: ‘Perpetual’
‘Perpetua stop! I am the murderer!’
She began to pray, running along, stumbling along, her feet like
lead dragging themselves at what seemed a snail’s pace over the
mile-long pavements. ‘Oh, God! Not this—not all alone out here in
the dark, don’t let me be killed, don’t let me be strangled all alone out
here in the dark...Don’t let me see his face staring at me, waiting to
watch me die...Don’t let me see his hands, coming at my throat...’
To have lived so long, to have thought and dreamed and planned
and suffered so much, and now to come so swiftly and suddenly to
this—to be cut off in a brief moment of horror, alone out here in the
dark...She thought of Isabel, turning to see the murderer standing
there  balefully in  the  shadows of  the  tower: of  Earl,  frozen in  a
moment of cold terror by the change in a pair of friendly eyes... ‘Oh,
God, save me! Save me! Don’t let me die...’ Behind all these doors
people lay  sleeping, kind  people, friendly people, sane, safe,
protecting people—all unaware that a few yards from them a girl ran
past their doors, too terrified even to scream out for their aid. She
came at  last  to  her  own  little  street and  as  she  turned into  it,  it
seemed to her that suddenly the following footsteps ceased. Sick
with  relief,  sick  with  reaction, she  moved on  her  faltering legs
towards her door: and gasping and sobbing turned in at the little
porch and fumbled in her pocket for the key.
Two hands came out of the darkness and grasped at her and
pulled her down. The shadows closed in.


Chapter XI
IN  HIS  MODEST HOTEL,  Inspector  Cockrill moved uneasily on  his
unfamiliar bed. London! Not content with waking you up at the hour
to tell you the time, a hundred noisy clocks reminded you of it every
quarter: and now it was half past three and he tossed and turned in
the  stifling heat  and  cudgelled his  weary brain  with  his  jig-saw
puzzle... But would even the completed puzzle—with nobody getting
any credit for it outside Scotland Yard—compensate his colleagues
in  Kent  for  his  non-attendance at  the  conference? He  moved his
head from side to side on the hard pillow. In an attic room across the
park, Brian Two-Times muttered a name in his sleep: and at their
hotel near by, Miss Betchley sat, a substantial, pyjama’ed ghost and
scribble-scribble-scribbled on  a  little  pad,  and  Mr.  Port  lay  like  a
pudgy corpse in his narrow bed, very still, staring up at the invisible
ceiling, sick to the heart with fear of all that had been discovered, of
all that must surely soon be discovered, all that would happen when
the truth was known... Isabel was dead; and Earl was dead; and
Brian  Bryan slept, and  Edgar Port  watched and  Susan Betchley
scribble-scribble-scribbled through the night: and George Exmouth
stood shivering in the shadows of a Bayswater door with a fainting
girl clasped in his reedy arms.
He  found the  key  of  her  door  in  her  pocket and  opened  it
silently, and, half dragging, half carrying her, took her to her room.
He had been there once or twice, and every detail of the house was
printed like a photograph on his brain. A second key opened her
door. He lugged her in and heaved her on to her bed. When she
came to, she found him sitting over her, and her hands and temples


cold and wet with the water he had splashed there to bring her back
to life. He was dreadfully white: his thin hands trembled sickeningly.
He said, in a whisper: ‘It was I who killed Earl Anderson and Isabel. I
couldn’t sleep. So I came to find you.’
She looked about her wildly for help, for some sort of weapon
with which to defend herself. It was only George Exmouth after all:
hardly more than a child, poor, thin, shivering, white-faced boy, and
yet—one had heard that lunatics were cunning and strong... And if
Earl had not been able to defend himself—nor Isabel... She pulled
her drifting wits together and decided upon conciliation. She put out
her hand to him, nervously. ‘But—you wouldn’t hurt me, George?’
He took her hand; and tumbled forward, half across the bed and
burst into a torrent of tears.
She sat quietly, letting him hold her hand. ‘Don’t cry George!
Don’t be so unhappy, George. Tell me everything and we’ll see what
can be done about it...’ Broadmoor, she supposed, was what would
be done about it: poor mad, terrified, terrifying boy...
He raised his head at last. His face was all slobbered with tears
and she took the damp cloth with which he had brought her back to
her senses, and gently wiped it clean as though he were a child.
‘There now—tell me.’
‘I was going to the police,’ he said, trembling. ‘I couldn’t bear it
any  longer,  and  I  was  going to  the  police to  confess. I  thought I
would come past your house, Perpetua, and—and say good-bye to
it. I’ve been here often in the night. I’ve seen the light in your window
and I’ve walked about staring up at it: and when the light’s been out,
too, Peppi, I’ve walked and walked and at least felt that I was near


you.’  He  put  his  poor,  tired, hot  head in  his  hands and  said
miserably: ‘I love you so much.’
‘Oh, George!’ she protested.
‘You  must  have known, Perpetua? You  couldn’t not  have
known? Why, every thought I ever have is for you or about you.
When I go to bed I resent going to sleep because I shan’t be able to
think  of  you... Sometimes I  dream, but  the  dreams are  always
terrible. I suppose I’ve—sort of reversed things: during the day I’ve
been living in  exquisite dreams; in  my  sleep I’ve  known the
miserable truth. You don’t love me, Peppi, do you, and you never
could? I’m  just  a  gangling schoolboy to  you,  I’m  just  a  mother’s
darling without  any  experience or  any  poise or  any  grown-up
sense... You can’t believe in your heart, that I’ve got a real mind that
works and thinks and puts two-and-two together and—suffers: you
can’t  believe that  although my  heart’s  only  a  boy’s  heart  it’s  as
capable of agony as any man’s. Calf love’s just a joke, isn’t it? And
this is only calf love—I know that. To you I’m just a great, lumping,
lumbering hobbledehoy with  big  hands and  feet  and  clumsy
manners, incapable of  understanding or  feeling or  heartbreak,
incapable of  anything delicate or  sensitive... Just  that  poor  kid
George, tied to his mother’s apron strings, a lout of an adolescent
schoolboy, with a bit of a pash on Perpetua...’ He broke off at last
and was quiet, sitting on the edge of the bed with his face turned
away from her, and his hands hanging dejectedly between his bony
knees.
Perpetua was appalled at the bitterness and pain in his voice.
She  said:  ‘Nobody ever  seems to  know anything about other
people’s suffering. But perhaps you and I can understand each other


a  little  bit  because  we’ve both  of  us  had  such  a  bad  time.  I’ve
touched rock bottom, George, you know. They say that remorse is
the worst hell of all: and my suffering has been remorse. It’s true that
I haven’t taken any notice of you, it’s true that if you’ve loved me all
this  time  I  haven’t  bothered about it,  I  haven’t even  troubled to
realize it...  But  I’ve  never bothered about anything, or  realized
anything: I’ve been too much wrapped up in my own suffering to
care. So you see that it wasn’t because you’re young; and goodness
knows it  wasn’t because you  were  a  hobbledehoy as  you  call
yourself: it was because there was something wrong with me—not
because there was anything wrong with you.’
He raised his head: something of the stark misery left his red-
rimmed eyes. ‘I see,’ he said.
She  was  alone in  here, shut  up  in  this  little  room with  a
murderer: and if he was a murderer it could only be that he was mad.
I must calm him down as much as I can, she thought, and then get
him to follow up his idea of confessing to the police... She went on
talking to him, quietly and kindly, holding his thin hand in her own.
‘But now things are different for me, George, and if you’re patient
and battle through this, perhaps they’ll be better for you too, soon.
You’ll forget me—because after all, I am a lot older than you—and
you’ll meet someone too that you can love, instead of me.’
He withdrew his hand sharply. ‘Do you mean that you’re in love
with someone?’
‘No, no,’ she said quickly. ‘It isn’t that. I only mean...’
But he cut her short. ‘You are! You are! You’re in love with that
fellow Bryan. I hate  him,  I  hate  him,  but  you,  you’re in  love  with
him...! It wasn’t because of Johnny Wise that you didn’t care about


me: it was because of him.’ He grasped at the light counterpane of
the bed and tore at it ruthlessly with crooked fingers. ‘You love him,
and I’m nobody—I’m nobody to you, because you’re in love with that
horrible fellow... I hate him. He stood there to-day, sneering at me,
contemptuous of me because I made a mistake and said that that
woman was a man... Well, she might have been a man. She looks
like  a  man,  her  voice is  deep  like  a  man’s—it  was  a  perfectly
sensible idea. And I—it’s true that I clutched at her dress but I didn’t
tear it, I didn’t do anything, there was nothing to sneer and mock at
me about.’
‘Brian didn’t mock at you,’ she said patiently.
‘He did, he stood there sneering and making me look a fool...
Well, all right, I may be a fool, I may be just a gauche boy, but I’ve
done something that he would never do! I’ve killed a man: yes, and a
woman too. He was going to marry you, Perpetua, that vile creature
Anderson, and he had a wife already... And Isabel was agreeing to
it, only then she’d have blackmailed both of you for the rest of your
days...’
‘Oh,  George,’ she  said, horrified: ‘you  killed them—you
murdered them—because of that?’
‘I did it to save you, Perpetua. And I don’t mind, I’m proud of it.
I’m  not  frightened, I  wasn’t frightened when I  did  it  and  I’m  not
frightened now—I’m proud of it. I’m going to confess to the police...’
She put out her hand for the telephone but she was afraid to
bring about a change of resolution. ‘The police will—they’ll think you
were extraordinarily—sort of daring and clever, George. To fool us all
like that...’


‘Perhaps it might be a good thing to go on fooling them,’ he
suggested, flattered and pleased.
‘Well, tell me about it, George: and then you can go on fooling
them.’
He  looked at  her  suspiciously.  ‘You  think  I’m  mad,  Perpetua.
You’re trying to sort of baby me along to tell the police.’
‘It was you who said you were going to tell the police.’
‘That’s what I came out for,’ he agreed.
‘Well, do what you like about it, George,’ she said, striving to
appear indifferent. ‘You say that you did this for me—I’m not likely to
split on you, am I? Just have it your own way.’
‘Yes,’ he said slowly. He got up off the bed. “I’ll think about it. I’ll
think what to do.’
Was it safe to let him go off out of the room: mad and dangerous
as he was? But the moment the door was closed on him, she could
telephone the police: they would pick him up before he was off the
doorstep. ‘Perhaps either way you’d better go along now. It’s four
o’clock in  the  morning, and  you  don’t  want  to  involve  me  in  a
scandal, do  you?—after you’ve—after you’ve done  so  much to
protect my honour.’
‘No,’ he said seriously. She stood before him, straightening his
rumpled coat, brushing back his tangled hair as though he were a
child. ‘Well—go along now, then, George, dear: and—and make up
your mind what you’re going to do.’
‘Yes,’ he said again: like a child. And went off quite docile and
gentle, into the night.
She locked her door behind him and three seconds later was
gabbling frantically into the telephone.


Charlesworth rang up Inspector Cockrill next morning. ‘I thought I’d
get you before you started out. The Exmouth boy has confessed to
both murders.’
‘Good,’ said Cockie. ‘Then I can get on with my conference.’ He
slammed down  the  receiver,  slammed his  hat  anyhow  on  to  his
head, slammed  the  door  behind him  and  stumped off  down the
street. ‘Grand slam!’ he thought to himself, having thus relieved his
feelings. It was not often that he made a joke, and he chuckled over
it with the greatest satisfaction as he marched through St. James’s
Park.
Susan Betchley was waiting for him there, loitering about the
path, guessing that he would come that way to Scotland Yard. She
was a pasty white under her sunburnt brown, her bright eyes were
heavy with  worry and  sleeplessness, her  hands were  clasped
nervously over her handbag. She came forward with a sort of darting
movement. ‘Inspector Cockrill—I was  waiting for  you,  I’ve  been
hanging about here, I didn’t know whether you’d come this way but I
know you’re staying at  the  Shirland, Miss  Kirk  told  me  so,  so  I
thought you might walk across to Scotland Yard...’
‘Stop dithering,’ said Cockie. ‘And tell me what you want.’
She clasped and unclasped the fastening of her bag. ‘I—I want
to confess.’
His eye gleamed. He said quickly: ‘What do you want to confess
to?’
It was desperately hot. The satiny blades of the grass caught
the rays of the sun and shone back like diamonds: here and there in
the park a couple of deck-chairs could stand it no longer and leaned
limply together for support, the children walked listlessly beside their


nurses dragging reluctant dogs that wanted only to lie in the shade
under the trees with their thin, pink, quivering tongues hanging out
for coolness. They faced each other, a little alert sparrow of a man,
and a young woman with steady eyes and shaking hands. She said
at last: ‘I want to confess to murder.’
‘Good,’ said Cockie briskly. ‘You’re in just the right place for it.’
He took her brown arm above the elbow and swivelled her round to
face Scotland Yard. ‘Over there,’ he said.
‘I want to confess to you.’
‘This is nothing to do with me: it’s not my case. Go over there,
ask for Detective Inspector Charlesworth and say what you have to
say.’
‘I can’t talk to him,’ she said. ‘He’s too young. It’s like going to a
doctor that  you  know personally.  He’s  too  young and—and
attractive...’
‘So you come to me,’ said Cockrill. He was much amused.
She moved her head wearily. ‘I don’t mean that...’
‘Well, never mind what you mean,’ he said brusquely. ‘I’m not a
doctor and  I’m  not  a  priest  and  I  don’t  want  any  part  of  any
confessions. Besides, I’ve got a conference to attend.’ He waved his
stick  in  the  general direction of  a  green bench sitting with  grim
determination out in the sun. ‘Park yourself for ten minutes by your
watch and think the whole thing out carefully: and then go down to
the Yard and tell your story to the oldest and most repulsive sergeant
on duty that you can find and he will take it down in shorthand and
pass it to Inspector Charlesworth, who will doubtless throw it into the
wastepaper basket and ask you to tell him all over again: but by then
the ice will be broken.’ Women are wonderful, he thought, marching


off again down the hot, dry paths. Even confessing to murder they
can’t keep sex out of it. Glancing back he saw her sitting herself
down obediently, a solid round mushroom in her white dress on the
green bench. Let her sit for a bit; he wanted to take this morning
walk in peace and giggle to himself over the famous joke. On an
impulse he turned into a telephone booth in Whitehall and dialled a
number. ‘Francesca?’
‘Cockie, pet!’
‘I thought you would be interested to know that your evidence
about the man in Piccadilly ringing up Earl Anderson has been very
useful indeed. Very useful.’
‘Well,  I  hope  it  doesn’t mean  that  anybody will  get  sort  of
hanged or anything, Cockie, does it? Because I wouldn’t like to think
that it was me that caused anybody to—to die.’
In the past Francesca had caused three people to—to die: but
not through her own fault, not by any carelessness or cruelty of hers.
‘No, no. On the contrary, you provide an alibi for the innocent. Er—I
thought of  something this  morning, Francesca, this  might amuse
you... I was sort of slamming my way out of the house and I said to
myself...’
‘Oh, Cockie, half a second, pet, I can hear the baby crying.’ He
could hear her calling, her head turned away from the mouthpiece:
‘Nanny! What’s the matter with baby?’ An answer echoed faintly and
the receiver was put down with a crackle and he could hear her
voice receding as she moved away. ‘But it’s lovely, lovely Milk of
Magnesia, pet... A  lucky,  lucky  baby  to  have  such  lovely Milk  of
Magnesia...’ He hung up crossly and slammed his way out of the
booth. Honestly I Women!!


And there was Edgar Port, white and shaking as a milk jelly,
standing at the entrance to Scotland Yard. Cockie admitted defeat.
‘Don’t tell me, don’t tell me! You want to confess!’
‘Yes,’ said Mr. Port.
‘Well, all right, confess to Inspector Charlesworth.’
‘He’s  not  here,’ said  Mr.  Port.  ‘He’s  gone  round to  George
Exmouth’s.’
‘You don’t say?’ said Cockie. He looked round with exaggerated
curiosity. ‘Any sign of Mr. Brian Twice wishing to confess?’ And click,
click, click went the pieces of the puzzle.
The figure in the centre was getting packed round with detail: it
was enthralling to have got to this stage, to watch it all grow. He took
Mr. Port by the arm. ‘Well, all right. Come along with me.’
Inspector Charlesworth having been called to George Exmouth
when at nine o’clock that young man finally made up his mind to go
through with his resolution, was summoned by telephone back to
Scotland Yard by the news of Miss Betchley’s arrival. Not knowing of
Mr. Port’s presence there, he did not yet appreciate that confession
had  become an  epidemic. He  left  Sergeant Bedd to  cope  with
George, and himself departed to deal with the Betchley. Far removed
from all this riot of self-revelation, Perpetua and Brian Two-Times sat
under the trees in the park, and only because it was so hot, did not
hold hands. The mackintosh lay neatly folded on the bench beside
them, under the black felt hat; from the paraphernalia of an English
gentleman, Mr. Bryan was inseparable.
Left alone with Motherdear, Sergeant Bedd perched himself on
a whitewood chair which had every appearance of a severe attack of


lumbago, and got out his notebook and pencil. ‘Now, Mr. Exmouth,
sir—you was saying?’
‘Have I got to just tell you,’ said George.
‘If you’d be so good, sir. Of course you’ll have to come along to
the station later and make a proper statement: but if you’d tell me,
then  Mr.  Charlesworth could  be  quite  sure  that  it  was...’ Mr.
Charlesworth wanted to  be  sure  that  George’s  journey  would be
really necessary: but this sad lack of impressment Sergeant Bedd
did not reveal. ‘I’ll just make a few notes, sir, to remind me. Doesn’t
bind you in any way.’ He made a few meaningless squiggles on the
clean page, just by way of demonstration.
Motherdear passionately wanted to be bound by this confession.
And  he  wanted to  make it  dramatically to  a  detective  inspector,
preferably two  or  three  or  a  dozen detective inspectors, and  at
Scotland Yard: not to mumble out to a stolid police sergeant with
kindly—and just faintly mocking?—eyes that—that he had killed Earl
Anderson because Earl was wrecking a—a certain lady’s life: the
name of which lady should not pass his lips... And that he had killed
Isabel Drew because she was aiding and abetting Earl, and between
them they would ruin Perpetua—er—the Lady’s life.
‘Couldn’t you  just  have  told  the  young lady,  sir?’  suggested
Sergeant Bedd, respectfully.
George was indignant. ‘How could I tell her? Tell her that the
man she loved was a villain and a bigamist, was—was plotting this
ghastly thing  against her:  as  though I  were  trying to  gain  her
affections by such a revelation. A man of honour can’t do that kind of
thing.’ He thumped his narrow chest and looked the sergeant in the
eye. Terrific!


‘So you killed Miss Drew, sir. How did you manage that?’ The
pencil hovered over the page.
‘I’m not going to tell you,’ said George with simple dignity.
Sergeant Bedd tucked the pencil away in the breast pocket of
his tunic and leaned back in his chair, though it seemed like cruelty
to the poor twisted thing to do it. He held his hands loosely clasped
in his lap, softly tapping together the cushions of his thumbs. He
said: ‘You don’t know, son: do you?’
‘I do know,’ said George angrily. ‘But why should I tell you? Find
out for yourselves.’
‘All right,’ said Bedd, comfortably. ‘That’s what we shall have to
do. What about Anderson?’
‘I lured him out by a phone call on the Maidenhead road and
killed him there: and then cut off his head and sent it to Peppi in a
cardboard box.’
‘Why?’ said Bedd.
‘Well,  I  mean, it  was  like  Salome. Herod wanted John  the
Baptist’s head, so she got it for him. Perpetua—the lady, that is—
wanted Anderson’s.’
‘You’ve got your facts a little mixed,’ said Bedd, who himself
read a verse or two of the Bible every night, though nowadays he
could hardly have told you why, except that Mrs. Bedd fancied it. He
had not resumed his note-making. He said: ‘What did you wrap up
the head in, in that box?’
George eyed him warily. ‘You know that: why should I tell you?’
‘You  can’t,’  said  Sergeant Bedd  again. He  continued to  lean
back in the chair, tapping his thumbs together. ‘Now, look here! You
could have killed Anderson. You have no alibi for the time of his


death, you knew he’d go off with you readily enough on the smell of
a  job  and  your  mother does  theatrical decor,  you  may  know
everybody in The Profession for all I know, you could easily fool him
that you had influence. And you could have gone back to the flat as
somebody did and gone in with his keys and packed his stuff and
taken it away. You could have: but you didn’t. Because one of the
things taken away was Earl Anderson’s bathroom curtains: and that
was what the head was wrapped up in, to keep it from—er—leaking.
And you didn’t know that, son, did you?’
George sat silent, his hands dangling between his knees.
‘We get this kind of thing with murder, you know,’ said Bedd
gently,  watching the  downcast  face.  ‘Some chaps—it’s  upsetting,
having such ghastly things happen: it puts them off their balance just
a bit. Take you for example. You’re a young gentleman who has a
hard time: your mother’s a masterful lady, all respect to her, and your
father’s gone, and she doesn’t like to let you go too free. So when a
bad  thing  like  this  happens, it’s  tough on  you.  She’s  away in
Scotland and can’t get back to be with you because she has work
there: and you take to brooding. There’s a lady in the case,’ said
Sergeant Bedd,  waggishly,  but  his  eyes  were  very  kind,  ‘and
everybody’s fussing over the lady, and the lady perhaps is fussing a
bit over somebody else, and nobody seems to be fussing over you.
The police suspect everybody but you. That’s because they’ve got
nothing against you; but you don’t think about that, you just imagine
it’s because you’re young and not important and they suppose you’re
not capable of the sort of courage and the sort of—of passion and
suffering and rage and determination that must lead up to calculated
murder. You’d like to show them that you are capable of acting like a


man, and a very strong and daring man at that: and then the young
lady, you’d like perhaps to be more important in her eyes, you’d like
to have her pitying you and worrying about you and thinking what a
chap you’d been, killing off people like that, and all for her sake.
Even if it was to be proved nonsense in the end—she’d at least have
noticed you, at least you’d be on her map for the rest of your days.
All  that’s  very  natural, son:  many people have made phoney
confessions of  murder before you,  in  many different ways—but
almost always for the same sorts of reasons. Perhaps you’d never
have  got  around to  it,  really:  but  then  something happened that
simply drove you  to  action. You  made that  mistake about Miss
Betchley,  yesterday.  You  accused her  of  something that  sounded
silly when it was proved to be untrue: and you put your hand out to
tear away her blouse, and the Inspector hit it aside, as though you
had been a silly kid. And Mr. Bryan, your rival in the affections of the
young lady, standing there so companionable beside her, looked at
you with contempt and called you a “foolish boy”. It galled you: it sent
you nearly mad, and you thought of it and resented it, and the hot
night went to your head. And so you cooked up this confession. Well
—you could have murdered Anderson; but you couldn’t have killed
Miss Drew, my boy, and that’s flat. She died at just about the same
time as she fell: no question of her being killed any time before she
was thrown over. You could have pulled her down: the ropes might
just  as  well  have  been  on  your  side  of  the  arch  as  on  the  Red
Knight’s. But you didn’t go near her. You sat there on your horse: you
never knelt down and touched her, like the Red Knight did. The Red
Knight could have killed her: we’ve proved that. But you couldn’t.


Your  whole confession’s  untrue.’ He  got  up  out  of  his  chair  and
walked to the window and turned and faced the boy. ‘It’s untrue!’
George got up also; and confronted him. He said: ‘But I was the
Red Knight.”


Chapter XII
DOWN ON  THE  EMBANKMENT opposite the Yard, Edgar Port sat on a
bench with Inspector Cockrill and watched the Thames go by. The
sun threw a shiver of sequins across the grey water; on the bank
opposite, barges lay moored up alongside each other like crocodiles
basking in the heat on the mud, and a boy was asleep on the wall
before them, one  brown leg  dangling in  its  grubby sand-shoe.
Exquisite to be a child, innocent and carefree, sleeping in the sun!
Mr.  Port  said  miserably: ‘So  this  is  my  confession, Inspector.  I
thought I would rather tell you than young Charlesworth.’
‘You  were  wasting your  time,’  said  Cockie, his  short legs
stretched out before him in their wrinkled stove-pipe grey flannels. ‘I
don’t think he’s got all this worked out. But I have. I know.’
‘You know about Isabel?’
‘We  all  know  now  that  Isabel  was  threatening you—oh, in  a
delicate way, of course. She might get a fit of conscience, she might
go writing and “confessing all” to your wife. You had to stop that at
any price. You paid and paid—in presents, in treats, so that Isabel
would not dream of killing the goose that laid the eggs: even for the
sake of that searing conscience! But she tightened the screw, she
picked a  silly  quarrel with  you,  it  all  looked more and  more
menacing... You  were  thankful when she  rang  you  up  the  night
before the pageant. But she rang off abruptly, evidently she wasn’t in
the mood even to receive presents. It frightened you more than ever.
You went off and bought her something that she would not be able to
resist—diamonds! You got a diamond brooch and you took it down to


the hall that evening. But still Isabel wouldn’t talk to you—when you
knocked on her dressing room door she sent you away. So...’
‘You’ve left something out,’ said Sugar Daddy. ‘When I arrived
there was a telegram from Earl. He had got some job or other and he
was ditching me: he was not coming down to the pageant. I couldn’t
think who should take his place; and then I realized that I should
have to. It didn’t matter: I was used enough to riding, out in “the
Malay” as poor Isabel would have called it, and heaven knows, I
knew all the movements of the pageant. And then I thought, I would
have—have a bit of fun with Isabel: give her the brooch in some
amusing way so that she wouldn’t refuse it. I wrote that silly verse, all
in two seconds, and left it with the brooch in the tower where she
would find it at the last minute. Then I collected the Red Knight’s
armour, and went on and did his part in the pageant.’
‘I see,’ said Cockrill, slowly. He prompted: ‘And then she fell.’
‘And then she fell,’ said Mr. Port. His pudgy cheeks shook like
jellies at the thought of it. ‘I was petrified, I sat there on my horse,
staring: nobody moved, nobody did a thing, it seemed like hours. I
didn’t realize that  she  was  dead, of  course: God  knows I  never
dreamed that she’d been murdered. I thought she’d just fallen over
the balcony: fainted perhaps, I don’t know what I thought... At last I
came-to a bit, somebody had to do something and I got down and
went to her and turned her over. Till that moment, I swear no thought
of myself had come into my head.’
‘But you saw at once that she was dead?’
He  looked like  a  poor  little  mole  sitting there  in  his  brown
summer suiting, with  his  little  hands clasped before his  rounded
breast. ‘Her face was so terrible! Yes—I realized that she was dead. I


was pretty sure she was dead. I turned her over, very carefully and
then I saw my brooch in her dress, and sticking up out of the neck of
her silver gown, a piece of white paper. I realized at once what she
had done: she had picked them both up in the tower, and having
nothing else to do with it, she had thrust the note down the front of
her dress. All of a sudden it came to me that it would be found there
and  if  there  was  an  enquiry into  the  accident—as I  thought it—
everything would come out. So I tried to take the note. My cloak was
all round me, nobody could see what my hands were doing. I tried to
pull the paper out; but the pin of the brooch was through it, I couldn’t
get it free. I was frightened. I got up, and stood back looking down at
her: and I realized how serious it was all going to be. The papers
would get hold of the silly little verse, and my poor wife—’ He broke
off, wretchedly. ‘It came to me that nobody knew I was there: nobody
could recognize me. I staggered away as though I were too upset to
bear it, and out in the stalls I scrambled out of the armour and I came
back  pretending that  I  had  been  in  the  audience.’ He  looked at
Cockrill anxiously. ‘You do believe me?’
‘The  question is,’  said  Cockie, ‘will  Inspector Charlesworth
believe you?’
‘You don’t think—you don’t imagine he’ll still think that I pulled
her down and—and killed her?’
‘There’s no saying what he’ll believe,’ said Cockie, sourly.
Mr.  Port  clasped his  little  paws.  ‘But  you’ll  tell  him  for  me,
Inspector: you’ll convince him that there was nothing criminal, you’ll
explain everything—he can’t but see how well it all hangs together,
he can’t but realize that every word I say is true?’ He beat with his


folded hands against his own breast. ‘You’ll tell him Inspector, won’t
you? You’ll tell him for me?’
‘What exactly do you want me to say?’ said Cockie, cautiously.
‘Why—that I was the Red Knight,’ said Mr. Port.
And at the Yard itself Miss Betchley, having sat the prescribed ten
minutes on the green bench, wilting in the sun, now poured forth her
soul to Inspector Charlesworth. ‘I want to tell you the truth, I want to
confess the truth, that I killed Earl Anderson and I killed Isabel...’
She  sat  on  the  edge  of  the  wooden chair  in  the  little  office  and
clasped her hands before her on the clip of her bag. She had a
strange white  look  about the  eye-sockets, and  the  bones of  the
knuckles were pearly against her brown hands. She said: ‘I know
that you don’t think I could have done it, Mr. Charlesworth: but the
simple truth is this—that I was the Red Knight.’
Mr. Charlesworth did not know as yet of the rush for the position
of the Red Knight. He listened attentively, his eyes on her troubled
face. ‘I killed Anderson, Inspector. It was all just as you worked it out:
of course I have no alibi for that time. Next day it was Isabel’s turn. I
knew of course that Anderson was dead: I took his place. That was
what I had planned. I joined the knights when they rode through the
arch and took his part in the pageant. I was out on the stage all the
way through. I pulled Isabel down with the ropes and strangled her:
and then I blundered away through the Assembly room. It would all
have  been terribly simple: I  should have  gone through  to  the
Assembly room,  slipped out  of  the  armour while they  were  all
bewildered and doing nothing, and gone to my post on the other side
of the door. Then I’d have appeared, saying that the Red Knight had
come blundering out and—what on earth had happened? But there


was a mishap. The body fell on the tail of the white horse and it
came bolting through. I stood, as you worked it out, huddled against
the wall, in my astonishment: and if Mr. Bryan saw me before he
tumbled off his horse, he thought I was a suit of armour, propped up
there. It wasn’t a question of the spare suit being used: it was me in
Earl Anderson’s armour. But Mr. Bryan got knocked out by his fall:
and when I saw that, I went on and got rid of the armour out in the
horses’ stalls and hurried back and began hammering at the door. It
was easy to convince him that it was bolted on his side: he was
dazed, and he believed what I said—he still thinks that it was bolted,
he thinks that it came from him that the door was bolted—but I put
the  idea  into  his  head  when  he  was  too  stupid to  understand.
Everything else was just as you’ve worked it out. I’d taken the ropes
off when I strangled Isabel, and pushed them under her skirt. That’s
all.’
Perpetua had  said  that  she  heard whistling all  through the
earlier part of the pageant: had heard Miss Betchley whistling ‘Sur le
pont d’Avignon’. But Peppi had been through a bad experience just
before, she had been found in a fainting condition: was it necessary
that she had been conscious at all, was it not possible that she had
been knocked-out and dreaming during the first ten minutes? It now
seemed possible that it might be so. Charlesworth said: ‘Why do you
come to me now, with this confession?’
She shrugged. ‘My job’s done. I wanted to kill them both, and I
have killed them. I thought I might get away with it and maybe I could
have. But having done it, inspector, I find I don’t want to get away
with it. I don’t care any more, I have nothing to live for or bother
about any  more.’ She  gave  him  a  lop-sided little  smile. ‘You


protected me yesterday: you said I wasn’t a man—and I’m not. But,
Inspector—why does  everybody assume that  Johnny Wise’s  twin
was a boy?’
‘You are Johnny Wise’s twin?’ said Charlesworth.
She raised her head. ‘I’m Johnny Wise’s twin sister: and I was
the Red Knight!’
On their bench in the park Brian Two-Times and Perpetua sat
idly  in  the  shade—not holding hands because it  was  so  hot.
Perpetua told Brian about the night’s adventure. ‘Now, in the broad
daylight, I see of course, Brian, that it must have been all nonsense.
The poor kid wanted to make himself important. But last night—one
hasn’t much sense of proportion in the early hours of the morning,
has one?—and I felt so helpless and frightened and all alone...’
‘I am your protector, Peppi: you are not frightened if I look after
you?’
‘But you can’t look after me in the night, Brian, can you?’ said
Perpetua plaintively: not really thinking.
Brian Two-Times looked as if that were just too bad.
They  decided to  go  and  get  some lunch and  got  up  off  the
bench and Brian collected his mackintosh and the black hat and was
with difficulty restrained from putting them on, because an English
gentleman surely would not walk about in Town without a hat and
coat? He consented, however, to hang the mac over his arm and
walk along twirling the hat on the bunched fingers of one hand. An
envelope was jerked out of a pocket by this vigorous twiddling and
he stopped and picked it up. ‘Oh, lord—a letter comes for me to-day
to my digs and I put it in my pocket and forgot all about it. Such a


hurry to see you, Perpetua, eh?’ He turned it over in his fingers.
‘Express Messenger too! Oh dear! Who then is this letter from?’
‘Open it and see,’ said Peppi. (Rather sweet of Brian Two-Times
to forget his morning’s post in his hurry to come and see her!)
Brian tore it open with a hooked finger. ‘Susan Betchley? Why
then she writes to me?’ As he hastily scanned the close lines, he
said now and again: ‘“My God! My God! Oh, this woman!’ And when
he was finished, folded the note and thrust it into his pocket: and his
blue eyes were a million million miles away. He came back with a
start to the London park and Perpetua. ‘Peppi—sorry, I must leave
you. I must go now to Scotland Yard. I must tell that Charlesworth...’
‘To  Scotland Yard?’ said  Perpetua, astounded. ‘To  tell  Mr.
Charlesworth something? But  Brian—all of  a  sudden like  this—
what?’
‘That I woss the Red Knight,’ said Brian, and left her abruptly,
striding away through the park with his bounding step.
Charlesworth gathered them all together in his office at the Yard: four
contestants for  the  enviable  position of  Red  Knight in  a  game of
murder. Inspector Cockrill stood by to see fair play. Brian Two-Times
cast his black hat upon Charlesworth’s desk and his mackintosh over
the back of a chair and confronted them, blue eyes ablaze. ‘Well—
now—I confess to these silly murders! This good lady—she hass
upset my apple cart with her fine confessions.’ But at sight of her
stricken face, he went over to her, and took her brown hand in his.
‘You meant for the best: but do you think I would let you confess to a
murder to  let  me  go  free?’ He  addressed them  all,  and  while  he
spoke he kept her hand in his. ‘This morning she sent me a letter:
but I am in a hurry, I think nothing much of it and put it in my pocket.


Just now I read the note. She has been thinking all night: sitting up
writing all night. The heat has gone to her head—I think it has gone
to all our heads. She tells me. “I loff you!”’ He raised her hand for a
half-second to  his  lips.  ‘For  this—thank you,  mad’moiselle: it  is
something for any man to be proud of. But, she says, she thinks I
love somebody else: to love this lady also would be something to be
proud of.’  He  bowed in  homage to  an  absent Perpetua. Cockie
thought that if he would cut the cackle and come to the hosses he
would really have something to be proud of after all. But the pieces
of  the  puzzle were  clicking like  magic into  their  places: and  the
central figure stood firm.
Brian Two-Times came to the hosses. ‘She says that she knows
that I am the murderer: she has known it from the first. She says that
she realizes now that I am the brother of Johnny Wise. Johnny Wise
had two brothers and a sister and a father and a mother. One brother
was his twin: and the other brother was older than the twins—and I
am that brother. My name was Bryant—not Brian: but I changed it
when I came over here to murder Isabel Drew and Earl Anderson,
and called myself Brian Bryan—Brian Two-Times as Issabel used to
say. All this Miss Betchley did not know: she only guessed. What she
knew was this...’ He swung round upon her. ‘Tell them!’ he said.
‘It is all lies,’ she protested. ‘He’s doing this to protect me.’
Inspector Cockrill thought he had never seen so many people
protecting each  other  in  all  his  born  days: but  this  was  the  real
McCoy. He leaned forward, keenly interested; and a huge piece of
the puzzle was settled in, once and for all. He waved the interruption
aside. ‘Go on, go on!’ Once they started on another exchange of
compliments heaven knew when it would end.


Brian went on. ‘What she knew was this. She told you all that
when the White Knight sat on his horse in his armour ten minutes
before the pageant, she went up and spoke to him. That was true.
But what she did not say was that he did not answer her. What she
said called for no answer: she wished the White Knight luck or some
such thing, and moved on about her work. When she said this, I
seized upon it: I used it later, I said that she had talked with me. That
was not true. To speak to a person and to talk with a person are two
different things. Miss Betchley spoke to the White Knight seated on
his white horse: but nobody answered her. And for a very simple
reason—there was nobody there.’
Sensation. But Cockie had had it all worked out long ago. ‘You
had  trained the  horse to  go  round with  the  empty armour on  his
back?’
‘I am used to horses,’ said Brian. ‘Yes, I trained him. I tried him
several times: several times he has done that pageant alone: after
all, he is a circus horse. If anything went wrong—if anyone had found
out  at  the  “rehearsals”—what harm? I  am  having a  joke  with
everybody,  I  am  pulling the  leg  of  our  good  Mr.  Port.’ He  was
obviously about to bow to Mr. Port. ‘Go on, go on,’ said Cockie.
‘So the night comes. Anderson is dead—and now Issabel must
die: Issabel or Jessabel which ever you like to call her. For me, she
is Jessabel. I saw it all when first she introduced me to the pageant.
The Tower! It was a pretty piece of justice: it was the finishing touch,
an exquisite coincidence. As Jezebel she had lived: as Jezebel died,
so she should die.’ His blue eyes blazed with a desperate sincerity:
and for the first time, Cockrill thought: I believe the fellow’s a little
mad.


He seemed to have forgotten them all. He spoke staring straight
ahead of him with the heaven-blue eyes. ‘I killed Anderson. This also
was to avenge my brother, but it served a useful purpose: it left free
the  Red  Knight’s  place in  the  pageant. I  saddled my  horse and
placed my armour on it and gave the horse a whack: and in it went,
and  took  up  its  position and  patiently waited there. Meanwhile I
changed into  the  Red  Knight’s  armour and  waited until  the  last
minute so  that  nobody could  question me:  but  Miss  Kirk  was
wandering about hurrying up the knights, and I was afraid she would
spot something. I turned my cloak inside out, so that only the white
lining showed, and I pushed her into the little room and locked her
there. I did not mean to hurt her and I did not: but murder was on my
mind, and  she  was  dangerous to  my  plans.’ He  stopped. Cockie
thought: Two minutes silence now, in respect for Miss Kirk!
‘So I rode through,’ he went on, ‘and took my place as the Red
Knight. The white horse took an empty suit of armour through the
routine. And when the time came, I jerked the rope and down she
came, and I dismounted and bent over her—and strangled her. But
to my horror—things went wrong. The white horse bolted into the
Assembly room. I decided I must follow it. I registered deep grief and
got myself off the stage. Once in the Assembly room, I ran to the
outer door and bolted it. Then I took off the red cloak and put on the
white one that the empty armour had worn. Miss Betchley hammered
at the door and I ran to open it: I think I put up a good imitation of a
man dazed by a fall from his horse. We went through to the stage.’
Charlesworth digested it all in silence. He said, at last: ‘But there
was a second man. What about the knight in armour that passed you


and Miss Betchley on his way out?—whom you both called up to
now, the Red Knight?’
Brian held tightly to Miss Betchley’s hand. ‘There was no second
man. Miss Betchley was astounded and bewildered by all that was
happening so fast. We hurry through the room to the stage: she does
not know what horror she will find there. We pass, it is true, a suit of
armour by the wall: when I suggest into her mind that a knight has
passed us, she does not think, she takes what I say for the fact.
Later, perhaps, she doubts: but by then she has observed something
which she did not mention at the time—that the knight on the white
horse did not answer her. And...’ He paused. He said: ‘She is so
kind as to say that she—likes me a little. She realizes: she knew my
poor Johnny—she knows what a boy he was—thiss golden boy!—
she knows these people in their own way have murdered him. She
sees  me  not  as  a  murderer  but  as  an  executioner.  She  keeps
silence.’ He bowed to her again.
And with the bow, the last piece clicked into place. The figure of
the murderer in the centre—the figure that had been there all along:
the Knight in the red cloak or in the white cloak, which ever way you
cared to regard him—Brian Bryan, a little mad, a little unbalanced by
events under the régime of the Japanese, brooding for years in his
concentration camp over the wrongs of his brother, ‘this golden boy’.
There were details here  and  there, in  the  background,  little
inconsistencies in the shapes of the supporting pieces of the puzzle
—but here was the pattern of the whole thing clearly in shape—a
flower-banked stage, a castellated wall, a cardboard tower, a foolish
little  balcony: glare  of  floodlights, upward shifting, ten  knights in
shining armour and  flowing coloured cloaks, one  suit  of  armour


empty on a white horse with a white cloak... Cockrill remembered
the tiny mounting of the heart one had felt at their first entry: jingling,
jangling through the  arch, right  out  of  a  fairy-book picture in
childhood days—jingling, jangling through the  arch, standards
astream, cloaks flying, armour gleaming... Through the  arch  and
straight down the  stage towards him  as  he  stood there in  the
audience: bright light focused on the leading knight, so bright that...
So bright that...
The puzzle scattered into a hundred pieces: the central figure
was flung from its place and lay uncertainly on the heap. The sky
caved in, the scene collapsed, the pattern was a kaleidoscope of
colour without form. Cockrill got up slowly out of his chair. He pointed
at Brian Bryan a thin finger stained mahogany brown by the smoke
of countless cigarettes. He said: ‘The whole thing’s a fabrication from
start to finish. You were no more the Red Knight than I was. You
were  the  White Knight: and  if  you  were  the  White Knight, you
couldn’t have killed Isabel Drew. You are not a murderer. I can prove
it myself.’ And he turned to Charlesworth and said: ‘He rode down
towards me on the white horse, wearing the silver armour, holding
the white standard, with the white cloak flying. The light flooded full
upon him. His visor was up.’ And he looked into those twin pools of
blue and dragged it out of himself reluctantly: the central piece of the
wonderful pattern of the puzzle. ‘I saw his eyes,’ he said.


Chapter XIII
AND  SO  SUSAN BETCHLEY  had  made her  heroic gesture: and
Motherdear had made his heroic gesture, and Mr. Port had made his
heroic gesture and  Brian Bryan had  made his.  And  Inspectors
Cockrill and Charlesworth, propping up a shiny bar in a shiny pub
chosen by Charlesworth, were for once in complete agreement—
they could have slain the lot of them.
‘I thought we had him,’ said Charlesworth, putting back a pint
and asking the dazzling barmaid for the same again. ‘But of course if
you say he definitely was on that white horse...’
‘The whole thing is a lot of nonsense,’ said Cockie, not using the
word nonsense. ‘He made it up as he went along. The white horse
was  not  carrying an  empty  armour: I  saw  his  eyes  as  he  rode
towards me. And he was not the Red Knight. Remember what young
Exmouth said...’
Charlesworth turned back  the  pages of  his  memory for  what
George Exmouth had said: “I saw Brian Bryan look at me with a sort
of alarm and astonishment when his horse began to buck about: and
then I looked across at the Red Knight and—the eyes that looked
back into mine were brown.” He said: ‘Of course George Exmouth
now says that he was the Red Knight.’
‘That’s all nonsense,’ said Cockie, again not saying nonsense.
‘Because if he was—who was the Blue Knight?’ They replaced their
tankards at the same time, and he made a twiddle over them with
the hand holding the inevitable cigarette, for the same again. ‘And
then,’ said Charlesworth slowly, ‘there was the matter of the cloak.’
‘The cloak?’ said Cockie.


‘The Red Knight’s cloak. Bryan says he was wearing it on the
stage. But it was found lying out in the stalls somewhere: and he
now  says  that  he  never went  beyond the  Assembly room—the
Betchley met him at the door and they both turned back and came
through the arch again. All right, how did the cloak get out?’
‘Oh, yes, the cloak,’ said Cockie. (He had somehow allowed that
matter of the cloak to slip by.)
And so it was all done: smashed to smithereens, the neat puzzle
built in round the central figure of Brian Two-Times in the armour of
the Red Knight. Charlesworth said: ‘It was like a jig-saw: I had it all
fitted together as neat and nice as you please...’
‘Oh, yes,’ said Cockie, politely, trying to attract the attention of
the young lady behind the bar for the same again.
‘I  seemed to  get  a  few  clues, and  then  suddenly the  central
figure just dropped into place. That was the odd part—that I got the
murderer first, and everything seemed to be working in round that.’
‘Always fatal,’ said Cockie, severely.
At home in Kent the pubs were little and low-ceilinged and many
of them dark with the uneventful history of a couple of centuries: with
scrubbed wooden counters and patches on the walls where the old
gas brackets had very recently hung: not neon and bakelite with a
bright, clean duster polishing away every friendly, familiar sign of a
ring  of  beer.  At  home in  Kent,  the  people behind the  bars  were
friends of getting on for half a century: Bill and George and Joe, and
Mrs. Bill and Mrs. George and Joe’s nice friendly lump of a young
daughter... And  when Inspector Cockrill appeared, there also
appeared like magic a pint of his usual, and another pint appeared
when that  pint  was  gone... None of  your  little  bits  of  skirts-and-


blouses sidling up opposite you and asking: ‘What was it you was
having?’ ‘Bass,’ he said crossly. ‘B-a-double-s, Bass: perhaps you’ve
heard of it?’
‘Sarky,’  said  the  barmaid, reproachfully indulgent of  the
impatient customer.
Charlesworth was, as usual, blissfully unaware of undercurrents.
He chattered on ruefully about the fearful errors into which he had
fallen, and  what  his  Chief was  going to  say.  Cockrill thought of
another session of the conference missed, and wondered what his
Chief was going to say. ‘The way I had it,’ said Charlesworth, ‘he
came home bent  on  revenge  just  as  he  made out,  with  all  the
trimmings: fixed up the noose round the window—they were always
clambering about the tower and fooling round, it needn’t have been
impossible—using two bits of rope to “make it more difficult”: got the
brooch and wrote the poem...’
‘No, no,’ said Cockrill. ‘Port got the brooch: and probably wrote
the poem too. He knew it off by heart. I think Port’s story is probably
true. He put the brooch in the tower for her to find, and...’
‘Well, all right, so it was just a bit of luck that that had happened:
it caused Isabel to lean out and look down at the Mystery Knight
upon the left, and so it was easier to get her neck in the noose. He’d
relied upon doing it when she bowed to the audience, or some time
like that. So he yanked her down and all went as he said. Only now it
wasn’t that at all!’ He could not help grinning at his own discomfiture.
It was almost exactly Cockrill’s own discomfiture. He acquired
an increased respect for this young man who had all this time been
quietly coming to approximately his own conclusions—even though
they might be wrong. He said: however; ‘My dear boy—you got the


whole thing wrong way round! Take one small point—Port knew the
words of  the  rhyme, therefore Port  wrote the  rhyme, but  if  Port
wasn’t the murderer how could he have known that the Knight upon
the Left wouldn’t be Earl Anderson? Unless his whole confession’s
true, and the Knight upon the Left has nothing to do with the murder
at all.’ His tankard was empty. Charlesworth twiddled a finger in the
general direction of the two tankards and the barmaid immediately
refilled them with the same again. ‘They know me here,’ he said to
Cockrill, with simple pride. ‘Good lord, that girl’s probably known me
for three months. It’s nice to get an established pub and stick to it, I
think, don’t you?’
Under the  influence of  the  third  pint  they  became more
genuinely friendly: and under the influence of the sixth decided that
the only thing to do was to charter the horses for the evening, recall
the knights, and lay on the whole pageant again, after hours to-night,
and go through it inch by inch with a toothcomb; and by comparing
and checking and questioning and timing surely, surely sift out some
discrepancy. ‘And if this were a detective novel,’ said Charlesworth,
buoyantly, ‘probably confront the criminal at the moment critique!’
‘This is not a detective novel,’ said Cockrill. ‘In real life the police
don’t “reconstruct the crime” so as to confront the criminal. These
writer people never get their police procedure right.’
‘It  would  be  so  deadly dull  if  they  did,’  said  Charlesworth.  ‘I
suppose they reckon that their job is to entertain and not to worry too
much about what  could or  would or  couldn’t or  wouldn’t  have
happened... After all, their books are just fun to read—not treatises
on the law. However, the idea of putting our lot through their paces


tonight is not so much to unearth the criminal as to eliminate the
impossible...’
‘They’re all impossible,’ said Cockrill, shaking his head, staring
down at  the  upturned end  of  his  burning cigarette. ‘Let’s  face  it.
Susan Betchley was  sitting  on  a  stool  outside a  bolted door,
whistling: Peppi Kirk heard her whistling, and it’s wishful thinking to
pretend that she didn’t, to suit our own theories—your theories,’ he
corrected hurriedly.
‘And old Port had definitely an alibi for the time of Anderson’s
decoyment to his death, so his story about playing a jolly trick on
darling Isabel may be quite true.’
‘And  Brian  Twice  was  on  the  white  horse in  full  sight  of  the
audience and never touched the girl at all.’
‘And  Motherdear was  on  a black  horse in  full  view  of  the
audience and ditto,’ said Charlesworth.
‘And Peppi Kirk was lying trussed up in a locked room, and Earl
Anderson was  lying  under some bushes minus his  head, and  if
Port’s story is true there are two nooses to account for, and a spare
suit of armour to be taken into consideration...’
And  click,  click,  click,  click,  the  pieces of  the  puzzle were
tumbling over themselves to settle into place again... Cockrill turned
to  Charlesworth  and  his  beady  eyes  were  bright with  excitement.
‘I’ve got it! The central figure—your central figure and my central
figure—that wasn’t this Brian Twice (Brian Twice indeed!)—that was
—’
A bunch of Charlesworth’s police pals were elbowing their way
over to them in a state of friendly jollity. As far as Inspector Cockrill
could make out, they were all called George. ‘This is old George,


Inspector. And here, Inspector, this is dear old George. Oh, I seem to
have left out George, Inspector. And this,’ said Charlesworth to his
friends, ‘is Cockrill, Kent police. You remember he made a bit of a
nonsense over that military hospital case down at Heron’s Park...’
Click, click, click  went the  pieces of  the  puzzle, neatly
dovetailing themselves until every space was filled and the picture
laid out clearly in every detail before him. But when Charlesworth
dismissed his jolly pals and turned to him, politely asking what he
had  been  saying just  before they  turned up—Detective Inspector
Cockrill, who  had  made such  a  nonsense of  that  case  down at
Heron’s Park—simply couldn’t remember.
The crowds had melted away. At ten o’clock, not relying upon the
Clock of Flowers, the loudspeakers blared forth God Save the King,
and on the stands the languid figures of the demonstrators tensed
themselves into an attitude all ready to spring at the split second that
the last note sounded: hooking down canvas covers, lugging great
shutters from the narrow cupboards, packing away merchandise into
drawers and boxes, spreading dust sheets, sweeping and polishing
in readiness for opening time to-morrow. The lights died one by one,
and footsore men and women in their resuscitated tropical kit, and
their  cheap cotton dresses, crept  with  their  last  ounce of  energy
down the stifling aisles for the final battle for the bus and home: there
to argue feebly over their wilting salad and a glass of water with
Eno’s in it to counteract its sluggish tepidity, the merits of Flee-flea
Insect Powder and Bowels-work Barley Sugar and the very last word
in  can-openers  and  screwdrivers combined. ‘My  order  book...’
‘Commission on two pounds ten...’ ‘Walked right over and chipped in


with my customer, my dear, and I’d been working on him for half an
hour...’
Soon the stage was an island of light in the dim hall. Nobody
remained but Charlesworth with his men, and Cockrill, and the five
poor  suspects and  the  nine  supporting knights. Bill  Clever,  the
groom, was  minding the  horses out  in  the  stalls. One  or  two
caretakers and commissionaires hung about—and that was all.
Charlesworth made them a  speech. ‘This all  looks very
sensational and what-not, but I assure you it isn’t. I just want to run
through that  pageant again,  a  couple of  times and  see  that  we
haven’t missed anything: I  don’t  propose to  expose anybody or
arrest anybody or  any  nonsense like  that.  And  I’d  rather,  if  you
wouldn’t mind, that you didn’t talk about it to the press boys. They go
making a Thing of it and the public get excited and begin expecting
results, and we all look silly.’ He looked very nice, standing up there,
tall and slim, with his young face smiling rather deprecatingly and the
caretakers and commissionaires felt quite fatherly towards him and
vowed in their hearts to say not a word about it, not even to their old
mothers, not even to their mistresses in bed that night. Not so the
nine knights, who said to each other in well aspirated Oxford accents
that they might sneak a nice little puff out of this, and each secretly
determined to rush straight to the telephone the minute they were set
free, and ring up Associated Press and try if they couldn’t make a
couple of  guineas. They  had  no  wives: and  if  any  of  them  had
mothers they had long ago forgotten them in the bitter glory of being
On the Stage and having had rather too little to eat for so long a
time.


Though it was long after sundown, the air was stifling still. It
seemed as if soon there must be a storm. So it was in the brightly-lit
centre of the vast hall. The knights waited listlessly about, the horses
stamped bored hooves with a tinny jangling of harness, the cloaks
and standards hung their heads, a flowerbed of colour, wilting in the
sun. Outside it was hot, it was dusty, it was leaden and dull: within it
was dusty and hot and dull as well. Inside and outside, they awaited
the storm.
There was  a  crash of  thunder:  a  rumbling cannon crash of
thunder that  jolted them all  to  alertness once again. And
Charlesworth said, briskly: ‘Let’s just run through the whole thing...’
Too  tarsome, said  the  knights.  Several of  them  had  missed
important meetings with Micky Balcon, to be here. Charlesworth took
George Exmouth by  the  wrist.  ‘You  claim  to  have  been  the  Red
Knight. All right—this time you are: let’s see how it goes.’
He wrenched his hand away. ‘I take it all back now. I was just—
making it up. I wanted to be—well, all right, I wanted to be important.
I was just the Blue Knight on the other side of the archway: I sat
there, I never moved...’
‘So you say now.’
He looked a little desperate. ‘But, look—I tell you, I saw their
eyes. I couldn’t have done that if I hadn’t been there, if I hadn’t been
the Blue Knight. I saw their eyes, just before she fell. The White
Knight had blue eyes. I saw them turn to me in alarm when the horse
bolted, and I saw the Red Knight’s eyes across the arch—brown
eyes...’
‘It’s easy to say that now,’ said Charlesworth. He took the red
cloak  and  chucked it  to  the  boy.  ‘Here, put  that  on:  for  this  run


through, you’re the Red Knight. I’ll be the Blue.’ He had had the
horses brought down for  the  occasion, and  now  marshalled the
knights into their old formation. Sergeant Bedd played the part of
Isabel, the blue chiffon veil flowing from the tall hat, perched on his
grizzled head. He ran skittishly through the crowd to the tower, and
disappeared within. Brian Bryan on his white horse rode through the
arch, and led his line through the evolutions of the pageant. They
ended up in their tableau beneath the tower. Sergeant Bedd threw
over a pillow to represent the departed Jezebel. The white horse
trotted through the arch into the Assembly room: the knights were
still. Charlesworth said to the Red Knight: ‘Dismount: and go to the
body.’
Motherdear sat his horse defiantly. ‘I never went near the body.’
‘Well, go near it now.’ The boy dismounted reluctantly and went
and knelt over the pillow. The red cloak spread itself about him like a
velvet tent. ‘Now get up and walk away through the arch.’
Miss Betchley and Brian Bryan came through the arch on to the
stage, George Exmouth crept back after them. He had taken off his
helmet and he looked deathly white. Charlesworth said: ‘Well?’
‘I’ve told you, I—I made it all up. I wanted to be important. I...’He
broke off  and  then  said  passionately: ‘I  just  didn’t seem to  be
anybody.  I  wasn’t even  suspected. I  was  only  a  kid  that  couldn’t
possibly murder  anybody,  let  alone be  in  love,  properly in  love,
enough to  do  murder... And  then  I—I  made a  fool  of  myself,
yesterday,  I  accused Miss  Betchley of  being a  man,  and—well, I
know I made a fool of myself... So I thought—I wanted Perpetua to
think...’ He stared wretchedly at the ground. ‘But I didn’t do it. When
I saw that I might really be accused I—I—changed my mind.’ To


Perpetua, watching in her sort of vague pity, he said: ‘I thought I was
in love with you: but I know now that even that wasn’t true. I—it was
just stupid calf love. And now—I can’t even keep up the lies I told.
I’m just a coward, I suppose, that’s all...’
Perpetua put out her thin hand to him. She said: ‘I always think
it’s so brave of people to admit to not being brave,’ and looked about
her, with a little smile, as though for applause. Brian Two-Times said:
‘I also.’ Blah, blah, blah, thought Inspector Cockrill to himself.
‘It suits you to say all this now,’ said Charlesworth, coldly.
George looked about him desperately, all his newfound courage
burned to ashes in this new flame of terror rising up out of a past that
already seemed not his own. ‘All right, then—if I was the Red Knight:
who was the Blue?’
Outside a thunder-clap shook the cardboard tower and swayed
the  cardboard  wall  and  made the  dusty floorboards tremble: and
Charlesworth walked over  to  the  black horse which still  stood
wonderingly with its forefeet poised on the wooden block, and said:
‘Well—tell us who you are!’
There was no answer: out of the blank shadows of the empty
helmet, nothingness stared balefully out at them. There was no Blue
Knight at all.
George took to his heels and ran.
Inspector Cockrill met him at the Assembly room door. ‘I thought
you’d do  that,  my  boy.  Come along back  with  me.’  He  led  him,
already spent and unprotesting, back to the stage. ‘You’re a man
now: you said so yourself. You must act like a man just a bit more
consistently. The whole thing’s hooey: nothing to be afraid of. Come
on back.’ As they crossed the room he said: ‘The Inspector’s only


testing things: and he’s tested this. You didn’t walk off the stage that
night: you were there when I climbed up. And if you’d gone off and
somehow unobtrusively crept back, trusting that nobody would notice
one more knight more or less—well, what about that empty armour?
That wasn’t on the stage when I arrived, and it didn’t get taken away
after I arrived, because the place was guarded. Come along now,
and put a good face upon it. And be a man.’ He dropped his arm and
strolled through  the  arch  with  the  boy  at  his  elbow and  said  off-
handedly to Charlesworth: ‘Well—that wouldn’t have worked, would
it?’
‘No getting rid of the armour,’ agreed Charlesworth at once. He
gave George’s shoulder a pat. ‘Hope I didn’t put the wind up you?’
‘Good lord, no,’ said George. He admitted: ‘Well—it did actually.
I’m  afraid I  lost  my  head  and  behaved like  a  kid.’  But  honestly,
honestly, it would be the last time!
A crackle of lightening lit for a moment the glass in the roof of
the hall: thunder crashed overhead. Charlesworth said: ‘So it wasn’t
our  George!’ and  he  looked at  the  others, at  Mr.  Port  and  Brian
Bryan and Susan Betchley and said: ‘Which of you?’
Charlesworth might not  be  expecting to  make an  arrest, but
there  were  policemen posted all  round the  circle  of  light.  And  at
something in  his  tone, they  began to  close in:  imperceptibly,
cautiously, with an unconscious menace tightening the ring round the
bag. Charlesworth said: ‘One o you!’
Mr. Port looked back at him steadily. He said: ‘You have been
over and over and over all this. Not me, because I couldn’t have
killed Anderson. Not Bryan because he could not have killed Isabel.
Not Miss Betchley because... because...’


‘Because she  had  just  failed to  kill  Perpetua,’ suggested
Charlesworth pleasantly. And the ring closed in.
Cockrill took Perpetua’s arm, gently, and stood beside her, holding
her. As though for comfort, George Exmouth moved closer to them.
It left Mr. Port and Brian and Miss Betchley alone together. Brown
eyes  and  blue  eyes  and  brown  eyes  again looked steadily at
Charlesworth. He said: ‘All for one: and one for all!’
‘And all for Johnny,’ said Brian softly.
The  lightning flashed again: thunder rumbled away into
nothingness. In the bright light the nine knights stood staring, in the
shadows the police stood close. Charlesworth repeated: ‘And all for
Johnny!’ He started to speak, very quietly. He said:
‘Johnny Wise had a father and a mother and two brothers and a
sister. He had a twin. Whether the twin was a brother or sister, we
don’t know. But he left them all to come to England; and in England
he died. The Japanese net closed in about his family and they could
not come home to avenge him. But they waited the day. When at last
they  were  free,  their  plans were  all  made. Johnny’s  father: and
Johnny’s brother: and Johnny’s sister. Johnny’s mother was broken
in her mind by all that she had been through—and by the death of
her  “golden  boy”  and  this  also  was  to  be  revenged. Her  illness
delayed matters, perhaps: but finally they got her home, a poor, sick
creature with no memory of the past—and the day came.
‘Three victims. Three murderers. A man and two women, who
had been responsible for Johnny’s death: a man and an old man and
a  woman to  exact the  penalty.  They  apportioned the  work  out
accordingly. Johnny’s brother to kill the man, Johnny’s father to kill


one of the women: Johnny’s sister to kill the other. But first they must
suffer. The threatening notes began.
‘The young, the strong, the daring one must set the pace. So
Earl  Anderson was  lured  out  to  a  quiet  spot  and  there  Johnny’s
brother murdered him and took a large kitchen knife and cut off his
head...’ He  paused. Out  of  the  shadows where he  stood with
Perpetua and George Exmouth, Cockrill repeated softly: ‘And cut off
his head!’ Charlesworth did not notice the interruption. He went on.
‘Mr. Port could have killed Isabel Drew: but he couldn’t have
killed  Earl  Anderson. Well,  that  was  all  right—Earl Anderson had
been attended to. The next evening, as the Red Knight, Johnny’s
father dealt with the lady whom Mr. Bryan refers to as Jessabel...’
‘Not always,’ said Inspector Cockrill.
‘... and she also paid the price. The white horse bolted through
and it was a ticklish moment while they wondered if it would upset
their  plans—but it  didn’t. They  were  all  conspirators together,  out
there in the Assembly room. Johnny’s brother and sister met at the
door  and  cooked up  a  nonsense about the  door  being bolted,
because it  must  be  impossible  for  her  to  have  killed  Isabel: and
Johnny’s father crossed with them as they came out to the stage.
Perhaps as they met they made the Victory sign.’
Inspector Cockrill thought that  Charlesworth might well  spare
them the frills. ‘All right, all right, all right,’ he said. ‘And then?’
‘And then the last of them, the worst of them, the girl whom
Johnny had loved and who had betrayed him and sent him to his
death—then her turn came. But first she must suffer, she must be
afraid, she  must  be  played with  like  a  mouse is  played with  and
tortured by a cat... She must be threatened, she must have that vile


obscene, filthy, terrifying parcel sent to her; and all the time Johnny’s
brother must prove once again that she was faithless, that a few blue
glances would cast the last of Johnny’s memory out of her heart for
ever.  Any  time  would do  for  killing her.  Johnny’s  sister had  that
matter in hand. They were all a little mad by now. Johnny himself—
how delicately balanced between madness and sanity, that at the
sight of his girl in another man’s arms, he goes out and kills himself
without waiting for explanation or regrets!—Johnny’s mother, tipped
over the edge of normality because her son is dead. It was “in the
family” as they say, to be just a little mad—delicately balanced, on
the  border line  between the  normal and  the  abnormal. Johnny’s
sister could take her time over her vengeance. Till Perpetua’s turn
came, everything must go according to plan: nothing must interfere
before all three were wiped out and off the face of the earth. But now
—the others were accounted for, she could take her time... The right
moment has not so far shown itself. That’s all. That’s the only reason
that Perpetua Kirk is alive to-day.’
Silence. On the glass roof a patter of raindrops scampered like
the feet of little mice, but otherwise there was silence. The outer ring
of the police, the inner ring of the nine knights, gaping, the seven in
the centre, Charlesworth facing Mr. Port and Brian Bryan and Susan
Betchley,  Cockrill standing to  one  side  of  them, his  hand on
Perpetua’s arm. And suddenly Perpetua spoke. She said: ‘Brian—tell
me that this isn’t true!’ and broke from Cockrill’s restraining hand and
ran to him and caught his hands in hers.
He bent down and swiftly kissed her. He said: ‘This is good-bye,
Peppi.’ To Cockrill he said: ‘You know—don’t you?’


‘Yes,’ said Cockrill: and he took three paces forward and caught
Perpetua by her narrow wrist.


Chapter XIV
AND SO ONCE MORE into the routine of the pageant: and for the last
time. Once more, and for the last time, the lights blazed down on the
shining armour and the flying cloaks and standards and the jingle-
jangle of the knights. ‘Take it from the beginning,’ said Cockrill. ‘Get
out of the armour. Start all over again.’ He said to Charlesworth,
perfunctorily: ‘Is this O.K.?’
‘I suppose you know what you’re doing?’ said Charlesworth, not
very hopefully.
‘You and your family parties!’ said Cockrill.
‘Well, it could be. We still can’t find a thing out about any of them
—not a sausage. Records have all gone to blazes, in the Far East, of
course: practically everybody new on the job, and you cable out a lot
of questions about a chap and they cable back, “Never ’eard of ’im”.
So I thought...’
‘It  was  ingenious,’ said  Cockie, kindly.  He  dragged Perpetua
with him by the wrist, and she went unprotesting, her face deadly
calm  among the  protests of  the  rest.  He  ignored them  all.  ‘Let’s
reconstruct it  just  once  more.  The  knights rode  through into  the
Assembly room. She left them gathering there, and took with her the
spare suit of armour—nobody would notice it if Perpetua Kirk was
seen moving armour about—it was for just that kind of job that she
was  there. Nobody pushed her  into  any  room: she  went  into  the
room herself, and there climbed into the armour. In the armour she
rejoined the knights in the crowded Assembly room.’ They rode off
through the  arch,  leaving her  there—propped against the  wall,
probably, to look like an empty suit of armour...’


‘But  she  heard me  whistling,’ said  Miss  Betchley,  faintly
protesting.
‘Of course she heard you whistling: of course she could tell us
the tune. She heard you through the door of the Assembly room.’
For the last time, the knights filed through the archway to the
stage. Charlesworth followed them. He stood to one side, watching
their  evolutions, Sergeant Bedd at  his  side.  A  figure in  armour
appeared for an instant at the window far above them: the pillow
came hurtling through the air and fell at the hind legs of the horse,
the horse duly bucked, and a moment later dashed through the arch.
Charlesworth followed. Rider and horse were standing in the centre
of the room with Cockrill at the bridle: and halfway across the room,
leaning against the wall, was a figure in armour. Cockrill said: ‘The
White Knight came riding through: he fell, he was dazed: he noticed
nothing odd about the suit of armour propped against the wall. She
had  bolted the  door  on  the  inside: he  heard Miss  Betchley
hammering at it and he got up and staggered over to it, and let her
in.’ He left the White Knight and went over himself and opened the
door to her. The archway filled with knights, curiously looking on.
Cockrill did  not  move them back. He  had  finished with
demonstrations. He said: ‘Mr. Port, as the Red Knight, came through
the room and passed out: and Miss Betchley and Mr. Bryan went
through and on to the stage. For quite a long while, the Assembly
room was empty: and in that time she was out of her armour and into
the little room and had locked the door on herself and thrown the key
under it, to slide into the corridor.’ And he turned to her, still grasping
her wrist. He did not go into any histrionics, not Cockrill: but he said
to her quietly, and reasonably, yet somehow savagely: ‘What was


anybody’s desire for vengeance compared with yours? Johnny Wise
might have a mother and father and brothers and sisters to grieve for
him:  but  for  you  he  was  the  lover,  he  was  your  future, he  was
everything in life that you had. I remember you then, Peppi, in those
old days.’ He waved a hand towards Brian on the white horse. He
said: ‘I was saying to Mr. Bryan the other day—you were a merry
little grig, happy and confident and very much in love. And suddenly
all this is swept away from you. They get you tight, you don’t know
what you’re doing and—the light goes out of your life. And without
light you blunder through your world for years, too apathetic with
grief and remorse, even to cut yourself free from the two people who
extinguished your light for you. Until one day—until one day you find
that they’re plotting against you again: are conspiring together so
that Earl Anderson can go through the form of marriage with you,
having already a wife; and Isabel Drew suck you both dry from that
day  forward  by  blackmailing  him  on  the  strength of  the  truth  she
knows. That woke you, Perpetua didn’t it? Mad! Talk about Johnny’s
people being mad—who was more mad than this poor Ophelia of a
girl, drooling round with the memory of her sorrows and her remorse
and  her  growing desire for  vengeance...’ And  suddenly he  stood
back from her, and made a sign to Charlesworth. And Charlesworth
went  up  and  stood before her  and  said:  ‘Perpetua Kirk,  I  am
arresting you for the murder of Isabel Drew and of Earl Anderson
and it is my duty to warn you...’
A voice said, quite pleasantly: ‘Oi!’ And Brian Bryan stood in the
doorway of the Assembly room, with a revolver in his hand.


Chapter XV
AT  SIGHT OF  THE  revolver,  a  triumphant gleam died  out  of
Charlesworth’s eye. He glanced for a moment at Inspector Cockrill
and was mollified by the stricken look on the old man’s face. Cockie
moved over to Perpetua. He said. ‘I’m sorry, child,’ in a voice that
humbly kissed her hand. Peppi did not look at him: her glance never
left Brian Two-Times’ face. Brian moved a little and with the swing of
his body, the revolver moved also, pointing directly towards her. He
said: ‘You see—it was true that when I kissed her it was “good-bye”.’
There was no trace now in his voice, of a foreign accent.
Charlesworth repeated the warning. Brian flung back his head
and laughed delightedly. ‘As for arresting me—come and get it!’ His
blue eyes shone with mocking laughter, but all the time the single
black eye of the revolver watched every move for him. Behind him
the  doorway  yawned: he  sidled into  the  room  until  his  back  was
against the wall—no getting taken in the rear for Brian Two-Times!
They stood watching him:  glancing now  and  again at
Charlesworth to see what move he could make. Charlesworth looked
about him, saw in the edge of the shadow his men at the ready. But
ready for what? They were unarmed: and he knew that Brian was
going to shoot his way out. He played for time.
Brian swung to Miss Betchley: the black eye of the gun fixed
itself upon her—a wary eye, ready at a second’s warning to swivel
away upon the danger point. He said: ‘You knew—didn’t you?’
‘I knew it was true that you were Johnny’s brother,’ she said.
‘Twin or not.’


‘Johnny’s twin is mad,’ said Bryan: and Cockrill saw there again
the light that had blazed in his eyes when he had said, in the office at
Scotland Yard when he had pretended to be the Red Knight—that
Jezebel had  deserved to  die;  when in  his  passion of  pain  and
sincerity he had forgotten for a moment to call her ‘Jessabel’. ‘He
was  always  delicate: he  never could go  about with  Johnny very
much. Then when Johnny came to England without him to join up—
that broke his heart. But he was proud of Johnny: he saw him as a
shining hero, going forth to battle, and if Johnny had died “with the
sword in his hand” he would have accepted it. Well, Johnny died; but
you  all  know how.  And  so  Johnny’s  twin  is  mad: a  drooling,
blubbering, witless creature that  lived through the  Japanese
occupation when  sane  men  died,  and  now  is  cooped up  in  a
madhouse, capering like an ape about his little room, and all running
to  flabby white fat...’ He  paused. He  said:  ‘It  was  not  only  on
Johnny’s account that Earl Anderson and Isabel Drew were to die.
This is what they paid for: and this is what Perpetua Kirk would have
paid for, only...’
‘Only that I explained to you that she, at least, was innocent in
that matter,’ said Cockie. ‘She was as much injured as Johnny: she
was to be pitied—not blamed.’
The eye of the revolver glanced his way. ‘You’re a clever little
man,’ said Brian, admiringly. ‘You knew that after that, whether I was
a  murderer or  not,  she  would be  safe  with  me.  And  I  wasn’t a
murderer: I meant it when I told you that. These creatures killed my
brother: the law couldn’t deal with them, but out in the East, we’ve
learned in the past few years to constitute ourselves executioners,
when necessary.’  He  said  to  Perpetua: ‘It  was  too  late  then—I’d


already sent off the head. But I did what I could to prevent your
receiving it—mark that up in my favour. I came in the morning, but it
hadn’t arrived by that post: another threatening letter was there, but I
couldn’t get it—the cleaner hung about. And anyway—I had to go on
doing these things a bit—it would have looked funny if all threat to
Perpetua Kirk had stopped the moment I was made to realize that
she had been innocent. I saw to it that they didn’t frighten her. I took
the telegram I myself had sent her when they phoned it through, and
didn’t say a word to her about it: only told the police.’
Click, click, click went the pieces of the puzzle: leaping in their
places, settling down again. The  revolver focused its  eye  on
Charlesworth: ‘When did you finally guess?’
‘This  morning when you  confessed all  that  nonsense about
being the Red Knight,’ said Charlesworth. ‘It was a brilliant stroke
that—confessing to a method that was almost watertight—with all
the time a loophole for wriggling out of! You made the story sound
good: you explained a lot of things that in fact were true. But it was
gilding the lily to tell us gratuitously that your name was really Bryant,
with a “t”. For heaven’s sake!’
Brian Two-Times burst out laughing again. ‘Gosh, I had fun over
that!—and some bad moments too, before I could afford to have fun,
before the  first  part  of  the  job  was  safely done. As  if  it  weren’t
enough to have Jezebel christening me Brian Two-Times, this old
image here’—he waved the revolver at Cockrill, ‘has to innocently up
and call me Brian Twice. Brian Bryan. Brian Twice, Bryant Wise!’ He
went off into his pleasant, easy, genuine laughter again. ‘I thought
any moment you’d tumble to it,’ he said.


Charlesworth could not help grinning a little. He wondered how
Inspector Cockrill liked being called an old image. Poor little man—
building up this wonderful fairy story about poor Peppi Kirk! Perpetua
had had an alibi for the Anderson-luring that long ago had counted
her out: for while the man in Piccadilly had been phoning Anderson,
Isabel Drew had put through a call to Peppi, in her own room. But
these old boys oop from t’country, they doddered on and on and
never seemed to know when they were beat. He glanced at the little
inspector with a commiserating air. Cockie followed every movement
of  his  thought,  and  his  blood  boiled. Charlesworth said  kindly: ‘I
suppose you see now how it was done?’
‘I saw all along how it was done,’ said Cockie coldly.
Nothing but the assembled company gazing respectfully upon
Britain’s wonderful police, prevented Charlesworth from saying, Oh
yeah? He asked instead, sweetly: ‘And Miss Kirk?’
‘Miss Kirk was a Ruse,’ said Cockie firmly.
‘To bring about what?’
‘To  bring  about the  confession of  Mr.  Bryan. Or  I  suppose,’
amended Cockie, ‘we should now call him Mr. Wise.’
‘Wise after the event, Inspector, eh?’ said Brian. They grinned at
one another, pleased with this pun.
Charlesworth was not amused. ‘Well—so you did bring about a
confession! It’s a pity you didn’t calculate on a revolver as well!’
Cockie’s  face  fell.  He  said,  however,  not  daunted: ‘Yes—we
ought to have thought of the revolver! It was so much—so much part
of  the  whole trappings: to  carry  a  gun.’  And  to  Brian  he  said:  ‘I
believe everything you’ve told  us.  You  came over  to  murder and
revenge: but because murder is a nasty, sordid business, involving


other  innocent, ignorant people,  and  because you’re not  a  nasty,
sordid person, you—you relieved the ugliness and meanness with a
—a sort of cloak of fantasy: your own white cloak, as it were... You
clutched at  the  suggestion of  Biblical symbolism, you  took
unnecessary risks, you made a sort of violent game of it all... You
grew gradually wilder. Careful at first: you didn’t want to get caught
before you’d carried out the whole job. The murder of Anderson was
simple, and cautious. You knew his telephone was out of order, but
you sent him a note, perhaps, or something, to ask him to be in a
certain call-box at such and such a time: then you put through a call
from Piccadilly to that box—talking of course in your ordinary voice,
because you no more had a Dutch mother than I did. And—that was
Earl Anderson. On the second night, you locked Peppi Kirk up in
cold  storage while  you  turned  your  attention to  Isabel. The  white
horse went through the pageant alone—you’d trained him to do it:
and meanwhile, you bolted the door of the Assembly room so that
you shouldn’t be disturbed, and waited in the shadows at the foot of
the tower stair. And at the moment you’d chosen, you went up quietly
and—that was Isabel!’ He stood with his brown fingers rolling an unlit
cigarette, and looked up at Brian from under his bushy eyebrows.
‘One always wondered—why throw the body down? But of course
you had to get the empty armour back to you. You knew that the
horse would be shocked by the fall—but wouldn’t step backwards on
to the body...’
‘One’s always heard that they don’t,’ said Brian, chattily. ‘It was
interesting—and a considerable relief—to find that it’s true.’
‘... so you threw her down. The horse bolted forward through
the arch. You caught his bridle, hauled off the empty armour and


propped it in the place of the spare armour against the wall: and took
the white cloak, and there you were—the White Knight again, just a
bit dazed by a nasty fall from his horse! Miss Betchley hammered at
the door and you opened it. You went with her through to the stage
and stood beside the dead body of Isabel: and after a moment you
reverently covered her with your white cloak. A charming gesture: to
you a particularly charming gesture in its irony—especially as with
the white cloak went the new white ropes that had tied the armour on
to the horse. The empty armour on the white horse. And he went to
the white horse standing patiently, nodding, a little away from them
all: and put up his hand and tugged at the armour, and the armour
dragged a bit and at last came down. A rope passed through one
empty sleeve and up to the standard, rigidly fixed to the saddle; and
another round the waist of the armour, under the white cloak down to
the crupper at the horse’s tail. Two lengths of white cord—each tied
into a noose.
After the tinny crash of the armour—silence: silence but for the
throbbing of  the  rain  on  the  roof.  The  thunder and  lightning had
ceased: no sound now but the beat, beat, beat of the rain. And into
the silence, suddenly, shrilling, the young voice of George Exmouth
cried: ‘But I saw his eyes! There was someone on the white horse!
You saw his eyes, his blue eyes, you said so yourself; and I saw
them, just before the horse bolted; turned to me with a look of—sort
of alarm and astonishment...’
‘Well—not his blue eyes,’ said Cockrill.
‘Not his eyes? Then...?’
And  so  the  central figure of  Cockie’s  jigsaw puzzle was
established finally in its place—the figure that had turned out not to


be Brian Two-Times after all: not exactly. Cockrill said: ‘How do you
think Earl Anderson looked that night—when his kind friend, carrying
him gaily off to the Golden Golliwog suddenly turned out to be—not
so kind? I should think alarm and astonishment would be putting it
mildly.
‘You mean...?’
‘I mean that there was nobody—no body—on the horse,” said
Cockrill. To Brian he said: ‘It was somehow out of character that you
should have cut off the man’s head for no reason: or just for the ugly
pleasure of sending it to the girl.’
‘That was a red herring,’ agreed Brian, pleasantly. ‘I had to carry
attention away  from  my  real  reason for  possessing myself of  the
head. I wanted the late Earl to be my alibi on the horse: but you can’t
lug around an eleven stone body. A habit of carrying a black hat in
one  hand, however,  and  draping a  mackintosh over  one’s  arm,
whatever the weather—so foreign!—covers a multitude of-—heads.
And for the rest...’ He paused. And there rose up in all their minds, a
vision of the hour after murder had been done: of the empty armour
hanging in the Assembly room with the empty helmet on the peg
above it: of Brian Bryan fretting and fuming in Mr. Port’s little office,
the golden hair, the blue eyes shining, the pillar of the throat rising
out of the round rigid neck of the armour—the helmet tucked away
nonchalantly, under one arm...
Silence again. Under the  bright lights, they  made three almost
concentric circles—the police  on  the  fringes of  the  shadow,  the
knights in their silly tin armour, rather hurriedly shifting their helmets
from  under  their  arms: the  little  central ring  of  the  principals,
gathered here  together for  the  very  last  time—Cockrill and


Charlesworth and  Mr.  Port  and  Miss  Betchley and  Perpetua and
Motherdear... Two dozen people in three concentric rings—held at
bay and helpless by the little black ring of the muzzle of a revolver:
twenty-four pairs of eyes looking desperately into the single roving
round black eye,  the  ‘evil  eye’  whose glance was  death.
Charlesworth did not quite see what was to happen next: and he was
afraid. He was responsible for what happened to twenty-four people
—and to a murderer—and he was afraid. He said to Brian Bryan:
‘What now?’
‘Now “good-bye”,’ said Brian, pleasantly. ‘In a moment I shall be
outside this door and down this corridor and if anybody tries to stop
me, I shall shoot. I’m not afraid to die for this—I think that perhaps
it’s true that I am mad—that there is in my whole family a tendency
to madness—that Johnny and I, as well as my poor brother, had all
the seed of madness in us—because I don’t care about dying: I’d
hang by the neck till I was dead, and I wouldn’t care a jot—now that
the job is done. But I’m not going to ask for it. I’ve got everything laid
on, for escape out of England—I’ve had it laid on from the beginning.
I  only  waited to  see  justice done  to  this  girl.’  He  waved the  gun
towards Perpetua. ‘I thought Inspector Cockrill had spotted me when
he said so significantly earlier this evening that I had cut off Earl
Anderson’s head: and soon after when he said that I did not always
pronounce the name “Jessabel”. So I sent on the empty armour in
the last “run-through” and I was going to slip away then—only then
he accused the girl.’ He grinned at Cockrill. ‘So your mistake has had
some good effect,  Inspector—for here  I  still  am  and  with  my
confession all set.’
‘And with your revolver all set,’ said Charlesworth, sourly.


‘Yes,’ said Brian. And he pointed it slowly, with a sort of gay
menace, all round the inner circle of them, and said: ‘And so—good-
bye.’ He began to sidle back towards the door.
Charlesworth stood irresolute. He said to Cockie, savagely: ‘I
had the men all ready for him to bolt: they’d have caught him up
outside. And now this. A pretty muck you’ve made of it for me!’
‘Yes,’ said Cockie humbly. And he raised his grey head and said
with a quiet determination: ‘We shall have to do something about it,’
and with quiet determination and as steadily began to move forward.
To Brian he said in his grumbling old voice: ‘It’s all up, son. You may
as well give me the gun.’
Brian steadied the revolver. ‘One more movement and I’ll shoot.
Have no illusions: I like you, Inspector, I always have, all along—but
this is my life. Don’t think I shall have any beautiful inhibitions about
your charms or your inoffensiveness or your grey hairs—because I
shan’t! One step more and I give you my word—I shoot.’ He pointed
the  revolver  at  the  little  man’s  heart  at  blank range: and  Cockrill
continued quietly on his course: and Brian Two-Times fired.
Click, click, click went the chambers of the revolver, turning round
upon  nothingness: and  in  the  brief  interlude, Charlesworth and
George Exmouth were at Brian’s throat and pulling him down. The
golden head submerged in a sea of knights in armour, of uniformed
police: the  blue  eyes  drowned  beneath the  battering of  fists  and
elbows. He emerged from the mêlée and there were handcuffs upon
his wrists—but his eyes were bright as stars. Charlesworth gave an
order: and  without a  backward glance he  allowed himself to  be
dragged away down the  long,  dark  corridor—blue eyes  shining,
golden head held high, an executioner going to his own execution.


And they who watched him knew that he would be hanged by the
neck till he was dead, as he had said: and that, as he had said, he
would not care a jot!
And in the middle of the Assembly room, Inspector Cockrill sat
quietly on the floor where the scrimmage had landed him, and broke
open  Brian  Bryan’s  revolver  for  the  second time  that  day.  ‘Wise
before  the  event, you  see,’  he  said  with  ineffable  sweetness to
Inspector Charlesworth: and scrambled to his feet and slung his old
mackintosh over his shoulder and slammed his shabby hat on his
head. ‘Got to get home to bed now,’ he said. ‘Early start to-morrow.
I’m going home to Kent.’ He added: ‘I’m afraid they’re going to think I
made rather a muck of that conference.’
And with a satisfied twinkle in his eye, he stumped off into the
night.
THE END


